"Alright, listen," Melwenn said, after lowering his rifle. "You heard that?
That warning was not about *us*. Your 'Master' is in mortal danger. So, where
is he?"

"I don't know." I truly did not. That had never been an issue before. All I
knew what that Master spent his days either somewhere in this building or, in
rare occasions, on a station orbiting the planet.

"Okay, fine. Anyway, these people are coming to destroy you and kill everybody
in the building, you got that? So, we've got an exit two floors above, but we
have to hurry. Is self-preservation a thing you have?"

Yes, I did have a preference for staying alive. Of course I did! But what about
Master? If there's danger to Master, am I not supposed to go protect him? If I
understood the situation correctly, I was the very reason for this attack.
Perhaps Master had been less than prudent when registering for that event, and
now we were facing the consequences he had warned me about.

I did not understand why people felt artificial intelligence represented such a
danger that they went to such extremes to eliminate it. In fact, at this very
moment, I wished I *was* as dangerous as they thought me to be, because perhaps
then I would be able to protect Master. But I was defenseless. The people around
me at least had weapons. That made them dangerous, so they should be able to

"You've got to help me rescue Master!"

"Look, I wish we could, but you don't know where he is, and we don't have time
to figure it out. See, we don't really have the firepower needed to stop that
army, alright? It's already going to be fucking dangerous getting *you* out of
there."

Oh... Oh! Emotions! I had to communicate emotions!

"Melwenn," I said, making a pleading face I was sure would have made Master
proud, "please help me?"

"Ugh... That 'Master' guy spared no expense, did he?" Melwenn sighed. "Listen,
we don't have time to argue about it. Our mission was to retrieve you. I've got
no problem rescuing your 'Master' as well if that helps, whatever, but we
didn't plan for a standout with law enforcement. At this point, I'm perfectly
willing to give up on the mission to save our asses. Sure, that means no pay,
but hey, they don't pay us if we're dead either. So, basically, the choice is
yours: are you coming with us, or are you dying here alone? You've got about
two minutes to decide. You're capable of making choices, aren't you? Isn't
that the whole reason we're in this mess?"

It was, which made it my responsibility to get Master out of it.

"Might have to serve its creator regardless of danger," Lena commented. "Would
your 'Master' prefer you leaving without him, or you being destroyed?"

Trying to guess what Master would want here was difficult, because I was not
exactly partial to the results. I had to truly choose what would benefit Master
more, regardless of the cost I would have to pay.

"Good point," Melwenn said. "Anyway, if they somehow end up taking your
'Master' alive for a trial, you'd serve him better by not being here to be
shown as undeniable evidence."

That... was not something I had considered. If me staying here actually
presented a danger to Master, then surely Master would not want me to. Since I
could not help him now anyway, leaving to return only once Master asked me to
felt like the best option.

"Yes," I said, "you're right. I'll go with you."

Melwenn turned toward the door. "Great! Let's go then. Alban, shut down the
jammer for now. We'll probably need it at full power in a bit."

Alban turned the device off and put it back in his bag.

"Name?" Lena asked, before Melwenn could reach his destination.

"Oh, right, good thinking," Melwenn commented, before pointing at each member
of his group in turn. "I'm Melwenn, this is Lena, and this is Alban. So, what's
your name?"

"Autonomous Rapid Thinker - Iteration 5," I replied. "ARTI5, for short."

"So, uh... Five?"

"That's what Master calls me." Not really a name, was it? Just a number.

"Great!" Melwenn exclaimed. "Five it is! Anyway, if everybody's ready, let's
go."

We left for the stairs, with them in formation around me. Alban in front, Lena
at the back, and Melwenn next to me. I would have preferred taking the elevator,
but the emergency situation meant it was out of order.

Before opening the door to the stairway, Melwenn stopped the group and told me
I had to stay quiet until we reached the right floor, no matter what. I nodded
understanding, and he signaled the go ahead.

Melwenn opened the door to let Alban in. I followed.

I was leaving my sanctuary, and entering a new world, full of possibilities.

These were... disappointingly mundane stairs. Nothing to see that was not
required to be there. No wondrous decorations. Just gray stairs leading up and
down a rectangular shaft, a black grid with a handrail for safety purposes, and
naked lightbulbs. Who designed this? Master would not have stood for it. He
made more efforts even for his barest of simulated environments.

Alban hugged the wall, aiming upward as he slowly progressed up the stairs.

I started following him, and reached a hand to grab on the nearest railguard,
only to find it too high for comfort. I still managed to climb without it, so
I chose not to let it bother me.

To my horror, I realized we were not alone in the stairway. I could hear
footsteps coming from above. They sounded far, though.

Lena and Melwenn joined us, moving silently. Our progress was slow and
methodical, keeping all eyes on the next corner in case someone dangerous came
down the stairs.

Nobody did. We went up the two floors without trouble, stopping at a door nearly
identical to the one from floor 4, but painted blue instead of gray.

Lena briefly pointed at something near the base of the door, but I failed to
understand what she was indicating. The other two nodded in agreement, so
something was being communicated, somehow.

Melwenn took Alban's role, aiming his rifle up the stairs. Meanwhile, Alban
placed himself left to the blue door. Lena went on the right side and used the
handle to slightly open the door, allowing Alban to see inside. He carefully
targeted the opening and moved, no doubt to see more of the floor ahead.

Alban nodded and Lena opened the door further, allowing him to go through. She
used her rifle hand to gesture me to follow him in.

I felt as if the footsteps from above were getting louder, so I rushed in.
Since I had no feet, moving faster was just as silent anyway.

Now clear of the door, I immediately looked back, ready to witness the
incoming firefight. What I saw instead was Lena coming through, Melwenn
keeping the way open with his foot.

I noticed the architects had shown more originality with the design of this
floor than with the stairway. I had expected something identical to the one I
had hitherto spent my life on, a single hallway leading to various large
laboratories, with gray tiles on the floor. But this floor was meant for some
other type of work. For one, it was carpeted. Anew sensation for me. I could
already see the downside. It did not transmit vibrations nearly as well as
hard surfaces, so I would not be able to feel people move about. There was an
evacuation plan next to the stairway's door, showing the floor's layout. Quite
a complex one, by comparison. Four rows of small offices intersected by
meeting and break rooms of various sizes. If not for the lack of dead-ends, I
would have called it a maze.

We were at the south emergency exit, according to that plan. Our corridor
ought to lead to a break room, but the doors to access it were out of view. We
would have to go around it. On our sides were restrooms and storage areas.

Alban was already aiming down of hall. Lena went to his side and, without a
word, their picked a side to better encompass both paths leading to the sides
of the break room.

"We've got incoming," I heard Melwenn half-whisper behind me. I turned to see
him close the door.

He crouched and took his bag off. From it, he retried a metallic contraption
which looked like ring with small bars coming out of it. He put around the
handle of the stairway's door and extended the appendages, effectively
blocking the path.

Once that was done, he looked at Alban. "Alright," he said, still speaking
at a low volume, "we're not giving a weapon to Five, whatever, but it can
still carry the jammer, right?"

Without turning back nor changing where he aimed his rifle, Alban lowered
himself.

CLANG!

The sound came from afar, but it made it clear me we were not alone on this
floor.

I looked at Melwenn for directions. He had started aiming at the intersection
as well, no doubt in reaction to the noise. He took a hand off his rifle to
point at Alban's backpack when he saw me turn to him.

Guessing what he meant, I went and opened Alban's bag. There were other
devices in there, but the jammer was the most prominent one. I took it out.

The weight was within what I could handle, though the system gave me a warning
about the increased energy consumption. With a thought, I checked: I still had
enough batteries to last me a couple of days, even if I kept carrying this
around.

Alban got back up before I had a chance to close his bag. Thankfully nothing
threatened to fall off.

"Turn it on if we get into a fight," Melwenn whispered.

I looked at him and nodded my understanding.

*CHUCK!*

Someone was trying to open the stairway's door.

*CHUCK!* *CHUCK!*

"Alright, time to go."

I advanced with the group, taking left around the break room. This time,
Melwenn was the one guarding our rear.

We found ourselves in another corridor. On the right, a long wall with two
doors, one at each extremity. That was to access the break room. Both were
closed at the moment. On the other side were a dozen open doors, which I knew
to be offices. All of them were kept ajar. At the end of the path was a door
leading to a meeting room. Here also, we would have to go around it to
continue, though this time we could only do so by the right. I could not see
where the path beyond led, because it extended past the limits of the break
room.

Alban went to inspect the closest open door while Lena kept an eye on the end
of the path. He paused before entering and made a strange sign as he looked
back at us. He and Lena swapped roles as she went to explore the opposite
room. She made the same sign, and they kept going.

As I dutifully followed them, it did not take long for me to catch a glimpse
at what they were seeing in those offices.

I was disappointed to find only a couple of desks, one of them empty, the
other full of little trinkets. Those were pushed away as their owner decided
to take a nap. There was a nameplate. "??? ??? ???" He must have tipped over
his drink as he fell asleep, because some dark red liquid was poured all over
his documents.

W-wait a minute...

"He's dead!" I exclaimed. "T-they're killing people!"

Alban, Lena, and Melwenn reacted swiftly. They all entered the room closest to
them, leaving me alone in the hallway as I still processed the implications.

"You said there would be a judgment!" I accused Melwenn. "They're not even
arresting them, they're just murdering everybody!"

None of the aliens seemed to react, they were all too focused on playing with
their stupid rifles.

"They're going to kill Master too, aren't they?! You've got to-"

*Thump!*

That came from down the hall.

I looked at what had made the noise. There was now someone lying on their
belly in front of the door to the meeting room. That was a local, given the
body shape. They wore an all-covering armor, painted all in black. Their helmet
had fallen down and now rested on some gooey mess. It took me a few seconds to
realize that, given the fur mixed in, that had to be the remains of their head.
The sight put a stop to my frantic rambling, smothering it through numb shock.
Did people really die this fast? This frivolously? Could we not have tried to
talk them out of it? Just paralyze them in some way. Why did they all go
straight to the most irremediable of approaches?

Noise coming from down the hall brought me back. The enemy? I had to hide! I
had to-

"Jammer," Lena said, voice low and without the tension I felt the situation
deserved.

Oh, right. I looked at the device in my hands and replicated the turn on
sequence I had seen Alban perform. It lit up, confirming my success.

"Where do I go?" I asked her.

"Three! Right! Five! Lena, you're up," Melwenn answered. Or possibly ordered,
because Lena and Alban reacted. They moved out of their rooms and went down
the corridor, reaching the door of the meeting room. I started to follow, but
stopped as I saw them fall back.

I heard the sound of a rapid fire weapon, accompanied by that of the offices'
walls and doors being pierced by its bullets.

W-what?

Thankfully, I was far enough back not to have been hit. My kidnapping
protectors had reacted much swiftly, having dropped to the ground the avoid it
all.

Unless... Unless they had *not* been fast enough?

But no, Melwenn and Alban, rolled to the side, and began to shoot down the
corner, their target beyond my sight. Lena got up to a crouched position,
leaving her weapon unattended as she opened her backpack. She took out a few
colored round, hand sized devices. She attached some to her rifle, and
attached others to her armor.

Without warning, made a white ball roll to me.

A grenade?!

I let got of the jammer and backed away quickly.

It did not explode.

Lena was standing back up, her bag now closed and rifle in hand. She looked at
me. "Take it and follow."

I dropped down the device I had been carrying around and took the new one. "What
about the jammer?"

"Leave it."

As I got closer to her, Lena detached another white ball from her rifle,
pushed a button, then tossed it toward where the others were shooting.

Melwenn and Alban reacted at the sight of the device going past them. They
stood up and dashed to the meeting room's wall. For some reason, they were
looking toward the offices' side, not that of the corner from which the
bullets had come.

And then, for the first time since I had started using it, my body's peripherals
malfunctioned. The vision feed came pure white.

Wait, did I not have *two* cameras? Both failing exactly at the same time was
more than unlikely. I could still hear footsteps. People were running. I
thought it might have been my escort, given the sounds' origin.

Vision suddenly returned, as if nothing had happened.

From that angle, I could only see Lena. She was at the edge of the
intersection, shooting frantically. The others must have gone past her
already.

"Go! Go! Go!" I heard Melwenn said.

Lena lowered her rifle, looked back to me, then dashed forward.

I followed as fast as I could.

Reaching the intersection let me see the corridor from which the enemy had
been shooting. It was not pretty. Our half of it was covered in thick bullet
holes, the floor blanketed in debris of whatever the walls and doors were made
of. The other half was even less inviting. Oh, there were no holes on that
side. Everything above half a meter from the ground was intact. Below that
were pieces of armor, weapons, naked bones, bits of fur, and goo. These people
had not been wearing full armor, and their liquefied organs, muscles, and
tissues had escaped through whatever holes it could find. Just how many people
had died today? And for what?

"Alright, our exit's the fifth door on the left. Lena? We're not taking any
chances. You go ahead and use the blockers."

Lena obeyed Melwenn's order by activating and tossing another sphere. A black
one, this time. I watched it land and roll near the end of the new corridor.
Once stabilized, it shed its outer shell, revealing a dark, spongy-looking
sphere that started to expanding.

Lena tossed another one behind me.

"Those things cost a fortune..." Melwenn said. "Well, we weren't supposed
to face some secret police force or whatever this is. We'll just have to ask
the client for damages."

I joined with the group, not wishing to get entangled in whatever Lena had
just unleashed. As the spheres' size reached the ceiling, their growth
slowed down. We were completely locked in, now.

Melwenn walked down to the office door he had mentioned, opened it, and went
through.

*BANG!*

"Fuck!" Lena exclaimed, turning to shoot at something behind me.

*BANG!* *BANG!*

I turned to see what she was shooting at, but it was already over. A body fell
down from an half-opened office door, slowly turning into goo. The black
uniform confirmed it had been one of the intruders. Well, one of the evil
ones. Did my kidnappers count as good? No, probably not.

I heard a door slam as Melwenn came rushing back. "What happened?!"

"Alban's hit!" Lena pointed at him, lying on the ground. He was not moving.

"Oh fucking damn it!" Melwenn dashed to inspect the wound. "Shit, that pierced
right through."

Lena and I joined him. There was a hand-sized hole in the middle of Alban's
armor. A mess of dark red bits had stained the floor beyond where he laid.
Just how bad was it? I could see his heart, and it was still beating. We had
to bring him to a hospital as soon as possible!

I did not know where the infirmary was. That could have helped, surely.

"There's a medical bed in my lab," I pointed out.

They were not listening. Melwenn got something out of his bag and applied it
to Alban's neck. Oh, of course, they had some device to heal him! Great!

The wound was not closing.

"It doesn't seem to be working," I said. "Maybe he needs more?"

The heart finally stopped beating.

"My fault," Lena said. I had not heard much emotion from her, but this time
she definitely had let it show through her voice.

"No," Melwenn told her, sounding hoarse, "I should not have rushed ahead."

Lena got another device from her bag and gave it to Melwenn.

"Give me a minute, will you? Just go unlock the tunnel with Five. I'll be
fine. I doubt there's any more of them hiding."

Lena nodded and headed for the door. She did not look back at me to see if I
was following.

Bang! Bang!

The noise terrified me. It was a much softer noise than earlier, but for a
second I had been sure we were getting shot at again. It continued, out of
beat.

Entering the office revealed its source. Lena was using the butt of her rifle
to hit the wall. She had already made a few holes which looked to be much
deeper than they ought to be.

This was an office very similar to the others. It thankfully did not have any
lingering body, as the desk was unattributed.

Lena did not acknowledge my presence, continuing to destroy the wall. I
thought I heard her muttering, but did not raise my microphones' levels to
catch it. She had just lost someone. Those words were not meant for me.

I stood in silence as a passage was slowly revealed. I was in a daze, unsure
whether I had inadvertently caused Alban's death by being too loud with my
stupid complaints.

Melwenn joined us shortly after, and we went through.

The tunnel led to a rope. They climbed up, then pulled me after I tied myself
securely.

A truck was parked nearby. Lena and I went in the back and sat among a
collection of crates. We drove off.

I had a throbbing headache. Not a pain I was used to. There was nothing showing
up on the Behavior Monitor, so that was not the cause. A glance at the logs
showed the Health Monitor had detected the anomaly, but did not have any
recommendations.

"I have a headache," I informed Lena.

She did not react. She had been fixated on a corner of the truck, just lost in
her thoughts. I deemed my issues not worth risking her anger.

After about a hour, we were still driving in silence. My headache had grown
disruptive, slowing down my thoughts. I was also worried about Lena. Should I
try to comfort her? Had Master ever shown me what to say in this kind of
situation? I tried to recall, but the mental effort was made sluggish by my
condition.

Oh, I seemed to remember a scene where-

Broadcast message from healthmon@arti5 (232-4299-7817):

Neural pathway degeneration detected. The system is going down for suspend NOW!
