There was a moment of confusing blankness, as if all my thoughts had been
over-saturated for an instant before being replaced by emptiness.

Oh. I was awake again! Wha-

[92133] Consciousness initialized. 84 corrupted memory connections purged.
[92133] WARNING: Missing log file parameter. Using standard output.
[92133] qt0mssc: Could not write to device.
[92136] qt0mssc: Could not write to device.

Stop! I-

[92182] qt0mssc: Could not write to device.
[92188] qt0mssc: Could not write to device.
[92192] qt0mssc: Could not write to device.
[92292] qt0mssc: Too many errors. Next try in 10 seconds.

Ugh. That was so annoying.

'$ systemlog --set-verbosity=0,' I sent the control interface. Too much
information made it hard to think. I had to report that to Master.

But I was awake! And that meant I was going to be trying something new! What
were we going to do today? And what did I get? Vision, obviously, though not
calibrated yet. Just a gray blur. Not a simulated environment, then? But I
could not hear anything, and that was unusual for real world exercises. I
tried to move ghost limbs to see if I had any.

No feedback.

A sudden spike of pain informed me I had done something wrong. Confused, I
consulted the "Behavior Report" interface. There was indeed an illegal action
entry: "Acted without perception." The description explained I ought to have
checked my sensors before trying to move anything.

Having been chastised, I concentrated on the light receptor, getting it to
focus properly.

The camera was lying on a familiar workbench, next to the four segment arm
I broke during our last test. Still being repaired, it seemed. I recognized
the room. E-408, A laboratory reserved for laser experiments. I did not summon
the interface, but its fed me the associated rules regardless. No entry allowed
without proper gear; close the door before operating equipment; currently
decommissioned for repairs; do not enter without authorization. As I always
reminded him, Master was violating three of these. Worse, he had performed an
illegal remodeling of the space, converting it into a robotics lab. Those were
not meant to be on this floor. The room's safety measures were not at all
adapted for this purpose. Wielding released toxic fumes, and the ventilation
system had neither the strength not the appropriate filters for it. No
possibility of just opening a window either: we were underground. What if
Master fell sick because of it? He never acknowledged the risk. Today, I did
not even have a chance to try: there were no connected speakers for me to
communicate through.

I couse see Master. He had brought one of the infirmary's beds into the lab. Just
another violation to add to a long list. He appeared to be working on a strange
mechanical puppet that was attached to it. Focused on his work, Master had not
yet noticed my reactivation, though he surely had been the one to initiate it.

Curious about how long I had been unconscious, I consulted the system's clock.
Five days. That was considerably longer than usual. One activation every other
day was the norm, Master needing time to prepare each session. Three hours past
midnight. A couple hours later than the usual waking time, then. Had something
happened? Some late worker preventing Master from working on his projects,
perhaps? It could have been the reintialization sequence encountering issues
after such a long break.

Now, how to signal Master that I was awake?

For safety reasons, my systems were never linked directly to the general
information network. But Master had used the simulation computer to trigger the
wake-up procedure, and the connection remained. My permissions were very
limited on it, but previous experimentation had taught me how to trigger a bell
sound.

Master must have heard it, because he turned to look at the camera. I could see
his mouth move, but there was still no sound. Poor planning on my part.  I
needed to think more before action. Using the interface, I started a lip-reading
application and connected it to the visual feed.

"... back online," Master was saying, though I had missed the start of it.
"Good. It's already late, there was a hiccup with the startup. Took me forever
to figure it out, but it should be fine now."

There was a pause, then he showed me his teeth. A sign irritation.

"No response, huh? Did the system go down again?"

I sent another bell sound.

"No? Then what? Corrupted audio drivers? That's weird... Wait, let me see..."

Master must have realized his mistake, because my consciousness was suddenly
assaulted by the unpleasant crackling sound that announced microphones being
plugged in.

"Good morning, Master!" I said, confirming that speakers had also been added.
"You should not be using this room for wielding. It's not safe!"

Master feigned not hearing my caution. "Good morning, Five. So, what do you
think today's test is about?"

I had expected the question. Me being able to reason by myself was the entire
purpose of my existence, so Master asked it pretty much every time. He called me
Five because my denominator was Autonomous Rapid Thinker - Iteration 5, or
ARTI5. For some reason, despite the number, I had never encountered any other
ARTI.

But this was not the time to think about that. I studied the problem Master gave
me. All new additions to the room had to be part of the answer, so those were
what I needed to investigate. Sending it a picture of the thing that laid on
the medical bed, I queried the simulation computer for object recognition.
Thankfully, my access was authorized, and I promptly received an answer.
"Animatronic of ???, previously used in a theme park on ???."

Asking about ??? or ??? required an external network connection, so I would have
to do without. But I had access to other software, and there was definitely
something out of the ordinary about this body: ??? was an alien. People around
here, including Master, had six limbs, nimble fingers, and long fur. This new
species confused me. A snake, but with two arms. Would that make it
half-salamander? I had better know, because that could turn out to be a
sensible topic. I found a program offering species identification, which told
me I was looking at a "???  (97%), Child (72%), Unknown Gender, Tundra origin
(86%), Fictional house of ???  (89%)." A lot of information, but none that I
could use. So I would have to base my answer primarily on it being a theme
park's animatronic.

"Am I going to try play ???'s role in an act?"

"An actor, huh? Well, that's not wrong, actually. Care to detail your
reasoning?"

"Master was working on an ??? animatronic when I woke up, so it's likely
related to today's exercise. Those are meant to continuously act a scene. I
could try to recreate the motions."

"Oh, right, I forgot this was a character from a play. Not a bad reasoning,
but you've forgotten to take the bigger picture into account."

The "bigger picture" was Master's goal: finding solutions around the ban on
artificial intelligence. An animatronic could do all this acting without any
ability to think, so what would performing the scene, even flawlessly, prove?
Nothing. Following a script required no intelligence. And acting without
following a script was...

"Improvisation, to see if I can communicate emotions convincingly."

"Yes! Good job!" Master exclaimed, making my behavior monitor trigger a surge of
pleasure. "The point is for you to be inconspicuous among us. I am working on
this - he pointed at the snake mechatronic - so you can use it as your main
body in the future. So? Do you like it?"

"Yes, Master," I lied, "it's great, thank you." I did *not* like it, but the
rules were to keep Master happy, and telling the truth here would disappoint
him.  Among the many bodies I went through, spaceships had my preference, by
far. In fact, a few months back, I had discovered my favorite vessel ever: the
???  IU-322 Interceptor. It was *awesome*. Now, against that, how could an
animatronic hope to compare? Two meager arms versus thirty-two attitude control
thursters and the best propulsion engine this side of the galaxy? The choice was
obvious. Fake scales that already seemed ready to fall off, or nigh perfectly
reflective exterior capable of withstanding prolonged beam exposure? No
contest here either. And what about spee-

"Good, good," Master said, interrupting my thoughts. "I'm not done with the
refitting yet. It would be a shame not to take advantage of the biotech
available here. I just need to convince a colleague to part with it..."
Master got lost in his mental planning for a moment. "Anyway! I've made a model
of the final version, so you can start familiarizing yourself with your new
body right away. I can't wait to start today's exercises, it's going to be *so*
great!"

And then Master unplugged all my peripherals before we began practicing in
simulated environments.

After the twentieth exercise, there no longer was any doubts in my mind: Master had
been mistaken. Oh, it was many things, but "great" did not figure among them.

The simulation reset once more, cutting me off from all senses for a while.
Nothing to worry about. There always were pauses between exercises so that
Master could prepare the environment or "set a mood", as he put it. I just
wished I was given something to do in the meantime.

My ability to act had proven mediocre, despite my efforts to find the
right words to say. As expected, the issue lay in my emotional response. Oh, I
had emotions, *that* was not the problem, but no reflex to activate muscles as
a response to them. How could I, when most of my bodies involved no such
actuators? It might have been fine if Master had linked those to an interface,
but he wanted me to use them naturaly, and that meant direct control. Because of
that, I had to think about each tiny movement, *every time*. I knew it would
become instinctual after a while, but there was no telling how long.

Emoting issues aside, the practice sessions did help me get used to this
animatronic body. I had not grown to like it, but I now found myself respecting
the dedication its makers had put into making it as lifelike as possible. I
wished they had made it taller, though. Sure, most living beings were not
spaceship-sized, but since this body was that of a child, everybody else looked
to be at least twice my height. That made it even more awkward talking to them.
Asking Master about it revealed his choice had been based on price and
availability. The character was not a popular one, so there had not been any
competition for it at the auction.

Moving was slow, but the serpentine body let me climb obstacles in interesting
ways. That was not pertinent to the exercise at hand, so Master swiftly had me
stop experimenting. There was one type of environment where it did not perform
well, however, and that was microgravity. Perhaps I had simply not figured it
out yet. It disrupted a few scenes before Master gave up on it, explaining that
this was not a priority anyway.

Without any warning, the new simulated scene grabbed hold of my consciousness.

"I fear this is goodbye, my dear," Master greeted me. He had chosen his usual
body. An approximated version of his real one. The musculature and height were
not at all accurate, but Master kept refusing to let me correct them.

Alright, so, back to work. I knew I had to answer and emote in some way. What
hints did I have? We were at the edge of a cliff, next to a dull, gray and
green ocean. Oh, the greenish hues came from an infestation of algae. The smell
confirmed this, saturating my senses with odors of salt and decomposing
flora. Absolutely disgusting. My ears fared little better, as discordant
animals screams covered the periodical sound of waves crashing on rock. Even the
sky was ominous, painted in blood by an overgrown sun which, despite its size,
failed to negate the marine breeze's chilly temperature.

I grimaced in disgust. "Yes, Master. But we ought to try again, in a better
place, or at a better time." That was a good line, I felt.

"Wrong. Wrong!" Master exclaimed, prompting a flash of pain. "You were supposed
to show *sadness* or *melancholy*." He sighed. "This is a romantic scene, can't
you tell?" No, no I could not. "The tearful parting of two lovers. Whatever...
Let's try again."

We did. Many, many times. For two weeks, our nights were spent practicing.
There was a uncharacteristic urgency to it all, which Master explained to be
caused by his intention to show me off in some event. According to him, once I
was done with this training, I would be ready to fulfill my purpose and
demonstrate to the galaxy just how far we could go without breaching the ban.
"Do not make sentience from the unliving." Indeed, I was alive, and thus
allowed. A miracle of biotech, making use of newly discovered materials from a
lost civilization. Still, the attempt itself had been made clandestinely
because all research on the topic, as well as their participants, would be
quickly terminated upon discovery.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It took nearly a month, but I was finally ready. That did not mean perfect, as
Master had hoped, but sufficiently inconspicuous that any blunder would be
ignored thanks to my child-like appearance. An unexpected advantage of
impersonating this character.

I no longer slept during the day, having been installed into the mecatronic
body. It required charging, which was a new concern for me. Master had tried
to reassure me by telling me that even if my batteries ran out, I would just
lose consciousness. I did not find that comforting. Manipulating remote or
virtual limbs while hidden in a secret laboratory had me accustomed to being
safe from any danger. Now, destroying this poorly defended body would end my
life.

And now Master intended for us to travel to another system. The reservation had
been made four days ago, before I understood the risks involved, not that I
would have tried dissuading Master.

On the other hand, I had gained considerable freedom. Master had arranged to
have the entire floor marked off-limits for repairs. Even the cameras were
turned off, so I could freely move about. My sensors let me detect vibrations
on the ground, offering some advance warning if someone happened to violate the
interdiction.

Master had replaced the animatronic's scales with biotech ones. Nothing
incredible, but they would regenerate from small scratches, provided I did not
forget to apply ointment. The original ones had been meant for the polished,
clean, and slightly oiled floors of the exposition. Those would have quickly
degraded here, exposing their artificial nature. Master had kept the same
coloring as the originals, which was a risk. The main, icy blue tones were not
an issue. But some scales had been painted with the same house's motif. Master
had explained to me how real ??? regularly shed, and would paint those patterns
anew every time. Mine were permanent, but the house they marking me as belonging
to was fictional. That might cause issues in the future, should I meet any ???.
Being a child would excuse the incongruous markings. On the other hand, not
having any markings at all would have made me stand out to even non-??? familiar
with the custom. Using those of a real house would be foolish. They did not take
such impersonations lightly.

Unfortunately, Master was just as unable to attend me during the day as before,
so I was left unsupervised. I could not even access the simulation computer to
fly around as a spaceship. Master considered this too much of a security risk,
which I felt to be unfair, given how frequently he ignored safety rules. As it
stood, Master had made a point of never including any way for me to remotely
connect to anything. Even this body had ports, currently hidden behind a scale,
but I did not have the related cables. It might have been part of the training,
to make sure there was no way for me to do anything but through the limitations
of my new body.

And so that was how I occupied my time, delicately manipulating Master's
seemingly forgotten tools to try to repair the four segments arm. An exercise
in dexterity beyond my current abilities, but good practice, with little risk
of injury. Precision and stability were key, exactly what newly acquired limbs
lacked. Here also, I was reminded of my body's small stature. I had to use a
box to raise myself to the proper height, and slightly hunch over the workbench
so that my arms could reach. The repairs involved testing each connection one
by one, and replacing those that were defective. That required no expertise,
letting me concentrate on finger control.

I noticed the cable I was currently analyzing had damage beyond the exposed
areas. Had it been already damaged before our exercise? Perhaps Master had
recovered it from-

I heard footsteps.

I got down from the box. The vibrations I perceived through the ground
confirmed it. A group of people were walking on a floor where no one ought to
be. I consulted the system time just in case, but it was still late in the
morning. Master would *not* be among them.

I slithered to hide myself behind the medical bed. For once, I was grateful of
this body's features. Moving this way made no noise. Unfortunately, I had left
the door open. It was just too tedious to activate every time I wanted to leave
or enter the room. I definitely regretted my laziness now. It did not exactly
have a lock, but each opening required the user to confirm they had made sure
no experiment was in progress. Closing it now would not prevent the intruders
from getting in, and they would definitely hear that.

Not knowing what else to do, I waited. They were go from one room to the next,
calling out "clear!" every time.

I wished there were better places to hide. Behind the workbench, perhaps? But
my body did not have the strength to move it. No other options that I could see.
The room was too sparsely furnished. Perhaps I could try to-

Beeeeeeep! Beeeeeeep! Beeeeeeep!

What?!

The alarm came from one of the tool still connected to the four segment arm. A
safety of some kind? B-but why now?

I heard the footstep resonating with more certainty, making their way straight
to E-408. The room I was in. No one entered, but I could see their shadows
looming across the open doorway.

Beeeeeeep! Beeeeeeep! Beeeeeeep!

"Don't move!" a masculine voice warned.

That was what I should have done, really. Just set myself *on* the medical bed
and pretended to be a dead body, or just an unpowered animatronic.

There was a moment of silence, then three people entered the room at once.
Without stopping, they set off in different directions, covering all angles with
their weapons. The first thing that struck me about their appearance was that
they had only four limbs. *Foreigners*. Definitely not supposed to be in the
building, let alone this floor. An army of some kind? They did wear some light
body armor, but that protected only their torso. Too little equipment for an
invasion. They all had backpacks. Maybe the rest of the armor was in there? Their
face was fully exposed. They were not of a species I was familiar with. Such
large eyes! Light shone on them like they were domes. Unlike Master's uniformly
long fur, theirs was sparse enough to show some skin on the face, yet covered
the rest. Well, except for their thin round ears. How peculiar. Also, looking
at how they held their weapons, these fingers were remarkably long, and even had
a tiny circle at their tip. Now if I had *those*, I was sure I would not
struggle so much when using Master's tools.

Hoping they would not pay any attention to me, I had still not moved at all,
even as one of them went beyond my field of view.

It seemed they finally had perused the room to their satisfaction. They lowered
their weapons, and the one behind me spoke out.

"Child ???. Doesn't belong. Our target?"

I identified the voice as feminine.

Beeeeeeep! Beeeeeeep! Beeeeeeep!

"Yeah, looks promising," the one closest to the door said. It had to be the man
who spoke earlier. "It's not moving. Fuck, it's not even *breathing*."

Oh. Right. I was supposed to pretend to do that. I started activating the
appropriate motors in a slow and continuous rhythm, contracting and expending
my body. What a waste of energy...

"Woah, that's creepy! Okay, well, that's *definitely* our target," he commented
before aiming at me with his gun. "??? ? Can you run the jammer?"

The last one took out a little cylinder and twisted one half. The top lit up
and... nothing happened.

"So," the man aiming at me continue, "are you in there?"

What kind of question was that?

Beeeeeeep! Beeeeeeep! Beeeeeeep!

I stayed quiet.

"Okay, let's do it this way, then. I'll shoot if you don't answer."

"I don't understand the question," I told him.

"Well, is your brain in that body?" He looked at his companions. "Alright,
nevermind, I guess I got my answer. Whatever. Now, for the tricky part. We're
getting you out of here. Are you going to make things difficult for us?"

Oh, perhaps they were supposed to escort me to the even Master wanted me to
attend. I knew it was hosted in a different solar system, so it would not be too
surprising for foreigners to attend. But why would they be on our planet? No, I
had to make sure.

"Who are you? Did Master send you?"

The one holding a jamming deviced reacted first. "'Master'? What kind of sick
bastard likes to be called *that*?"

Beeeeeeep! Beeeeeeep! Beeeeeeep!

I took that as a "no". That was a considerable problem. Where was Master? He had
told me to stay on this floor. I was not supposed to be seen, either. Well, I
might have already failed the latter, but maybe I could still manage the former.

"I am not leaving without Master's permission."

The man near the door spoke again. "???, think you can extract the brain
without damaging it?"

"Maybe," the jammer wielding alien replied. "I'd need to open it up to see,
first."

Oh. That would be *bad*.

"I will not survive if you remove me from this body," I lied.

"Damn," the order-giving man said. "That's going to make things a lot more
complicated than expected."

Beeeeeeep! Beeeeeeep! Beeeeeeep!

"???, do you mind if I shut this down? It's getting annoying."

"Alright, whatever, go ahead."

??? went to the benchmark and disconnected everything.

"Alright, now we'll just need to find this 'Master' and -"

An alarm sound blared, followed by an emergency broadcast. "Facility under
assault. Take refuge. This is not a drill."

"Fuck," ??? swore. "They got here fast. That's going to be rough."
