*Thud!*

My eyes shut open, letting through a painfully bright and blurry gray light. I
coughed violently, and wheezed. I wanted to rub the pain away, but my arms
refused to move. Everything felt either tingly or burning.

What had I been doing again?

That noise must have been ??? making a mess somewhere in the apartment, as
usual. What time was it? I knew she would soon ask for treats, not letting me
fall back to sleep now that she had heard I was awake.

My head ached. A migraine, and not a small one. Had I eaten something bad
yesterday?

Wait... No... Something was wrong. Something was *very* wrong.

I opened my eyes again, forcing myself to bear the pain. This was *not* my
apartment.

It all came back to me in a flash. Having been selected for a mission at
Supplicant Station, our planet's disappearance, the crew's treachery, and... the
cryogenic pod filling up.

I lived! Against all odds, someone had come to save me. Was it the ship? Had
they changed their mind? How did they restore me back to life? Where was I?
Was this gravity holding me down, or just atrophied muscle? I *was* lying
down, so it had to be gravity. Had we found our planet, after all?

My view was slowly becoming more focused, letting me see written words less
than half a meter above me. They glowed black on a gray background. A screen
of some kind. Though still blurred, I recognized the letters as saying "PRESS
KNOB TO START" and noticed there were other much smaller writings in the
corner, still undecypherable.

That migraine was not receding. I closed my eyes again, but that barely helped.
I was hungry. And thirsty. My limbs were starting to respond again, but the
effort of lifting anything more than a finger was beyond me. Even breathing
was difficult. The air warm felt too warm in here, and the bedding too hard.

I gave up and my mind drifted into a feverish half-sleep. Somewhere in my
mind, I knew this was a dangerous state to be in. That I needed to take some
medicine to make sure I did not hurt anyone or break anything.

"H-help..." I croaked. It might have been barely more than a whisper, but it
seemed to echo in otherwise deafening silence.

There was no answer, and my I realized I might simply have missed it, as I
kept fading in and out of consciousness. But at least I did think I had forced
my thoughts on anything.

After some unknowable amount of time, I started feeling noticeably better. My
arms, while trembling from the effort, could finally move. I carefully felt
around, and realized I was in a metal box. Almost a coffin. It would be
fitting, I supposed, to wake up in one after going to sleep expecting to die.
But the bright screen and the small tubes leaving my left arm told a different
story. It seemed I was still wearing my EVA suit, although a considerable
amount of cloth had been cut off.

By now, my eyesight had recovered, and I could read what had escaped me
before. "L12", "Castonius Medical", and "232-4298-3504" were each displayed in
a different corner. While I did not know what "L12" meant, nor had I heard of
"Castonius Medical" before, I recognized the Scriptures' date format as it
increased. Day 4298, counted as the number of half-rotations made by the
Watcher's inner ring, and 3504 out of the 10000 seconds each half-rotation
took.  But the year had to be wrong, surely. The Scriptures had not given us
any indications about when to start counting years, so we chose to mark it as
the year the First Supplicants reached the Watcher. However, this date format
was not commonly used, as the length of days did not correspond to our
planet's synodic period. Supplicant Station used it, of course, but I was
*not* on Supplicant Station, as the oppressing gravity kept reminding me. But
maybe...  Maybe the year was correct. Had I spent centuries frozen in that
pod?

I was still unable to concentrate. Halting my diverging train of thoughts, I
refocused on the screen. No egregore that I could sense, except the one at my
back, which I recognized as belonging to the EVA suit. Strange. I found the knob
mentioned by the screen on my right, slightly raised and further than my arm
could comfortably reach. It was capable of rotating in either direction, did
so as I struggled to get a good grip on it. I pushed, putting as much force as
I could, which proved to be just enough to trigger the mechanism.

The screen blinked, leaving only the corners unchanged. It now displayed a
very long text. Definitely beyond what was reasonable to communicate over this
slow medium. Why did they not simply use an agregore? I was too tired for
this!  Rotating the knob made that wall of text go up or down, revealing that
my initial impression of what constituted a "very long text" had severely
underestimated what was possible. Struggling to read text so small, I vaguely
recognized that the structure of a legal contract, with mentions of laws,
referred to only by their numbers. But so long?

I was about to dial it back to the start, to study it in more details, when an
involuntary twitch made me press the knob and caused the text to disappear.
Thankfully, it seemed I was not required to leave a thought recording of my
agreement. I was in no shape to do so, and had no real understanding of what
that text had been about.

The new screen displayed a another scrolling text box. I was releved to see
this one featured a much more concise list of items. While I did not understand
all the terms, entries such as "Room and Board - 4500LC x 3" and "IV
Solutions - 1300LC x 1", told me what I was looking at. A medical bill. Going
all the way down revealed the total to be 1,745,866LC. Not particularly
helpful, given that I had never heard of a currency called LC. The number
seemed rather high, however. Rotating the knob further revealed selectable
options. That interface was just too awkward. Why not just use some egregore
and have all of this be communicated much, much faster?

The screen was offering me two choices: one to connect to an existing local
account, the other to create a new local account. I was interested in neither.
What I wanted were *answers*, and this thing was not providing them.

I still felt woozy, but by now I could sense people all around me. A *lot* of
people, but the sensation was strange, as if I could no longer interpret what
I perceived. Even the Watcher's presence felt considerably dimmer, although
that would make sense, given that I was no longer on Supplicant Station.
Attempting to concentrate on one of the minds around me quickly led to
vertigo. Perhaps a side-effect of de-cryogenization. I had never heard of a
successful resurrection procedure, so I knew nothing of the potential issues
it could lead to.

"C-can - Cough! - can anyone hear me?" I asked as loudly as I could, prompting
a coughing fit.

No answer. No water. No food. What could I do?

I returned my attention to the screen and selected the connection option. It
prompted me for a serial number, which I did not have. Returning to the
previous menu, I opted to create a new account instead. It asked me to fill up
various information, such as name, date and place of birth, and... species?
Alright, whatever. I was in no state to care, and confirmed that, on my honor,
I had answered to all questions truthfully. It gave me a serial number, which
I committed to memory.

Having now access to the connection menu, I was welcomed by an alert about
insufficient funds, which gave way to a myriad of bank options sorted by
name. I perused them all, trying to find the one that should have held my
accounts. Indeed, before leaving for Supplicant Station, I had arranged for my
savings and pay to be invested, thinking it a good way to plan for a couple of
decades without use. And surely, if I had stayed frozen for centuries, then
this could only mean even *more* money.

Nothing matched the name of my bank. Not knowing what else to do, I chose one
at random, and was given options to convert funds into LC. Even with my
limited business sense, I could tell the transfer rates were ludicrous. The
conversion was not linear. Not at all. Starting at a minimum of 113GRC, that
bank's default currency, to get 100LC, it went all the way to 999,999GRC for
2,000,000LC. But there was no way to input an arbitrary amount. Worse, the
display indicated that up to 28 days may be needed to validate the
transaction. So even if I happened to have the funds in that bank, I would
have to wait and pay for quite a considerable amount of time in that metal
coffin.

Getting annoyed at how much was asked of me despite my recovering state, I
left that menu and kept scrolling down the bank list. I never found any that I
recognized, but had an "Other Payment Options" button at the end of the list
game a surge of hope. There might be a way to delay payment until after I got
back on my feet.

"Castonius Medical provides the best healthcare to even the poorest among us,"
the screen displayed, "offering FREE* organ extraction. Never let a lack of
funds deny you the treatment you need!" A footnote indicated that some
conditions may apply. Any doubt I started having about the meaning of that
message evaporated in an instant after the next menu showed up, listing the
value of organs it knew I still had.

I had to get out of here, right the fuck now!

Having tubes connecting my left arm to this infernal machine no longer seemed
so innocuous. Cringing, I extracted their needles from my body with a
trembling hand. It was painful and a bit messy, but it *had* to be done.

I was not out of the woods yet, being literally stuck in a box. It had to open
somehow, but I could not tell from which way. All the surfaces I saw had the
same metallic texture. Just in case, I pushed the one that stood outside of
my view, near the top of my head. It did not budge, nor did it felt different
to the touch. Damn. Damn! I started panicking in earnest, my breathing getting
erratic as I clawed frantically at everything in reach.

A wet sensation informed me I had torn the tubes coming off the left wall.
Thankfully without hurting myself further with the needles. That got a
reaction: the screen changed its message to tell me that vandalism would not
be tolerated and that security was on the way. I was beyond caring. I wanted
out, and kept trying to push and tear the limits of my prison. It was not
working, and I started screaming in a mix of frustration and fear. The one
thing I left alone was the screen above my face. Destroying it would most
likely cause me severe injuries, and I did *not* want to spend more time being
healed by whoever had put me in this thing.

After a while, I had to stop. I was exhausted, hungry, thirsty, and hurting
from every muscle. But a least the panic had receded. I knew it to only be a
prelude to fatalism. Following what I had been taught, I worked on trying to
meditate, consciously ensuring I was slowly but fully inhaling and exhaling.
Brute force was not the answer. It rarely was, for me. Trying to make a dent
in what was most probably steel would just end up with me breaking claws and
bones. I was not very good at finding the inner peace one was supposed to seek
through meditation, not even with a full belly and thirty quenched. It helped,
but I knew I was still far from rational.

The screen had not changed from its warning about incoming security personnel.
Perhaps I could explain the situation to them. Surely, they would understand
that I had been, and still was, under a bit too much stress and just needed to
return to semblance of normal life before before being able to deal with all
of this. And payment through organ harvesting *had* to be illegal. That option
had not been too prominent, so perhaps it was only shown to the most desperate
of patients, those unlikely to report it to the authorities, or too uneducated
to know any better. Vultures.

Could I sense security coming? In what mood they were? That could be useful.
Unfortunately for me, even at my level of aptitude, empathic communication
required *some* concentration and peace of mind. Right now, I could feel the
presence of other people around me, but they remained too strange to attempt
any contact. I dared not push a thought into their mind in that state. What if
my warped perception led me to harm them? I knew this to be a real danger.
The Watcher's Chosen were forbidden judgment-altering drugs, and had to take
blockers should they find themselves losing control. Despite the warnings, it
was not rare for newly appointed Chosen to get into serious trouble by falling
into the temptation of joining their friends in what was otherwise harmless
fun. My blockers were on Supplicant Station, of course. I forgot about them,
not having been in too much risk of a breakdown during the last decade.

*Clang!*

I jolted at the unexpected noise and hurt myself hitting the hard surfaces.
Before I had time to react any further, bright light blinded me and I felt
whatever I was lying on shift, dragging me along away from the screen.
Blinking a few times, I accustomed myself to the drastic change of brightness.

I was out! Finally!

I sat up a bit to fast and cringed at the pain. I knew I should count myself
lucky even just being alive and whole after going into cryogenic sleep, but I
could not help but get annoyed at how painful this resurrection was proving to
be. But this was not the time for self-pity. There was someone next to my
bed-drawer. Or at least, that was what my mental senses told me. My eyes only
saw a child-sized suit of high-tech armor with no visor. That thing was
clearly way beyond any mechanical suit I had ever witnessed. Utility normally
took over design for these kind of things, and the black and white sleek
shapes proved this had not been deemed necessary here. Security, I was sure.

It stood there, facing me, but unmoving. There were very strange sounds coming
out of it. Almost melodic. I just hoped it did not indicate some weapon being
charged up.

Not wanting to take my chances on that, I looked around for an escape.

Only the warm temperature belied this being a mortician's cold room. All
surfaces were painted white, with the one exception being the metallic body
(or patient?) storage system. Only my drawer was currently pulled out, and I
was surprised to see not all of the twenty or so others had the same size.
What were they storing in there? It did not matter, I still needed an exit.

I saw the operation table with some tools readily available. Weapons to fight
security? Ha! Not likely. The bed looked considerably more complex than what I
was used to, but that could be explained easily, if I had spent so long in
hibernation.

Finally, my eyes stopped on an open door. I could leave! I just had to get up
and go through there. And be free from this madness.

The armored suit made a louder, more strident noise that disrupted its little
song. That reminded me I should try for a more peaceful option.

"Can you help me?" I asked. "I don't know where I am and-"

The security guard moved. It was so fast I missed it, only realizing what had
happened once it already had grabbed my arm with large metallic claws.

"Outch! Let me go!"

It instead used its remaining hand to detach a rectangular thing from
somewhere on its back. It was palm-sized and rectangular. A weapon? The armor
kept making those annoying loud sounds. Being unable to escape whatever it
meant to do to me with that thing was terrifying. My mind, already shaky from
too many strong emotions in such a short period, went into full panic. Using
my remaining arm, I furiously clawed against the obviously protected limb that
held me in place. That only made the suit squeak louder. Throwing caution to
the wind, I went for my last, forbidden resort.

'RELEASE ME! NOW!' I ordered whatever was controlling the armor. It was almost
a blind attack, since I still could not get a clear reading on anything but
the small egregore at my back. I made it as strong as I could, to compensate.

That... did *not* produce the desired outcome. They were slowly falling
backward, yes, but still had not unhanded me. Knocked unconscious, I assumed.
I was not far from it myself. I followed them to the ground, not offering any
resistance as vertigo and a splitting headache ensured I would have fallen
regardless of their grip. The impact finally freed me, but I was in no state
to get up for quite a while. Once the world stopped spinning, I fought
the oppressive gravity to get on my feet, fumbled around, and picked up the
cubic weapon. A dangerous move. *Another* dangerous move, actually. That
attack had *not* been a good idea. Thankfully, the weapon did not go off as I
grabbed it. I had absolutely no idea how it worked, but this was no time for
idle wonder. Reinforcement might arrive any moment, and I was in no state to
defend myself. I limped my way out of the room.

I had to stop every five step or so, as movement kept worsening my vertigo.
Delirium was not unheard of after this kind of mental strain, and indeed the
corridor I found myself in did not appear to vertically straight. In a daze, I
kept slowly going forward, my left hand leaving blood marks on the wall as I
took purchase. A quick check informed me that it came from a combination of
the harsh removal of those tubes earlier and the security guard's claw having
cut through skin during the fall. I was not lucid enough to feel the pain. I
kept going. I knew pushing myself too hard just meant I would end up fainting,
but recalling the "organ extraction" screen was all I needed to find the
will to keep going, no matter what.

Time seemed to dilate as nearly identical gray doors let way to more gray
doors in this gray hallway. There *were* things on the walls. Indications,
perhaps, but I dared not look at anything but the ground in front of me, for
fear of losing balance. The ever increasing number were of little dancing
white dots in front of my eye were a clear sign that I was about to reach my
limit. I even saw monsters hiding on the edge of my vision, surprisingly
realistic, though my judgment may not have been at its best, and I ignored
them all.

My trek took an abrupt end as I collided with one of the creatures. Not
thinking I would need to avoid something born of my imagination, I had moved
straight into them. They did not react, but the door they had been next to
opened and I fell into the room. I stayed on the floor, at the edge of
consciousness. It resonated with deafening mechanical sounds. That kept me
awake, but also amplified the headache beyond what I thought possible. There
were dirty cushions everywhere on the walls, even the floor. I took it as
confirmation that I was hallucinating the whole thing. In fact, the being I
had collided with was still visible at the edge of the room. Covered in dark
silks, thin, with gray scales. What was that even supposed to be?

Gravity suddenly increased, in an attempt at finishing me off. Breathing
became the only thing I could concentrate on. I just hoped this was going to
end soon. And it did, after close to thirty painful breaths. But then things
became even more absurd, as gravity started going *sideways*, slowly making me
drift toward a cushioned wall. At least this time the force was not too
overwhelming.

And then I started flying. I was used to it. My dreams usually involved
flight. Although this particular one seemed not follow the same rules as
usual. No arm flapping involved. This was more the feeling I had in space. Had
my journey to Supplicant Station ruined dream flight for me? What a shame. Oh,
well. Not an uncomfortable feeling, all be told. I could sleep like this. Not
something I usually did in dreams, that.

I fainted.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Thirst woke me up. I was still tired, but my body would not let me rest before
I drank something. Considering I was floating in a very large dilapidated
corridor, my chances of finding a food were dim indeed. Luckily, I had not
drifted out of reach of the walls, because without anything to bounce from
in this microgravity, I would have been trapped. Usually, I could simply rely
on a gadget or two, or even some article of clothing to help swim through the
air, but I had no such thing here. The EVA suit would not serve well for this
purpose in its current state. Oh, it still had some of those tiny thrusters
that were meant to provide attitude control, but those needed fuel, and I had
left that at Supplicant Station, which this was *not*. I had to be on some
other station, built while I was frozen, and somehow capable of generating
gravity in some places.

The little black box I had stolen from the security guard had drifted a few
meters away. I caught it, and a closer inspection revealed this to be no weapon,
but a container of some sort. Food? I really hoped it was food. But no such
luck, according to the small gray "Emergency Translator" writing on its front.
I used a claw to open the plastic container, revealing a tiny triangular
badge with an adhesive side, accompanied by a thin transparent tube and a
small instruction manual. The entire booklet was white, the words having been
embossed in without ink.  No doubt the result of some cheap plastic recycling.
They really could have gone for color, though. That was a pain to read.

"Sacrovir Emergency Translator," the front page read. "May your words never be
mistaken." Despite that manual being more than twenty pages long, the
instructions fit on a single one. "The Sacrovir Emergency Translator uses bone
conduction by default. Use the provided attachment for an alternative method."
I stuck it behind my left ear, before realizing the fur would prevent
transmitting vibrations to my ear. Why was I even bothering with this now?
Whatever. I had better finish the procedure anyway. I set up the little tube
so that it would reach my ear and heard tapping noises coming from the device.
The next step was to do a long press of one of two buttons to set up the
device, then read each of the provided sentence, keeping the other button
pressed at each recitation. I dreaded having to read all the pages, given how
hard the letters were to decipher, but my fears proved unfounded as I
recognized the text. Those were excerpts from the Scriptures.

Once the device was set up, I started exploring the corridor.

This time, I paid close attention to my surroundings. I was in a rectangular
room, about three meters tall and wide, but ten times that distance in length.
One side led to an emergency evacuation pod and its opposite to an elevator.
The hallway was formed of nigh identical modules, each connected to the
previous one by large automatic doors, no doubt meant to seal off the
compartment should any leak be detected. The direction I was following
indicated "A", while the other was "F". There was some kind of padding
covering all the walls, a safety precaution against high speed collisions, and
a myriad of fabric handles provided a good purchase to propel oneself forward.

I had elected to go back home. Surely, if this was centuries in the future,
space travel had to be commonplace. Finding someone willing to bring me back in
exchange for promises of future payments had to be doable. Or maybe I could
just rely on my status. But I did not have my ceremonial ornaments or any
document proving that I was anything but a rogue. In fact, wearing my tattered
EVA suit did make look exactly like a fugitive.

Actually, I recalled I had attacked security personnel not too long ago.  It
was surprising they had not caught me yet, especially considering I was
unconscious for a while. The Watcher's mercy, perhaps. I could not linger for
too long, however. They would surely come to get me at some point, and this
time they might very well shoot without warning.

I spent a long while crossing bland corridor after bland corridor, but then I
finally reached something different. A module with an hexagonal shape instead
of the square one. Seven choices, including the one facing me, which was
basically just a continuation of that overly long corridor. But it grabbed my
full attention with three simple words. "Free Drinking Water," the device on
the wall promised. I rushed toward it.

Use of the water distribution construct was surprisingly straightforward. You
pushed a button and it would output water in a small chamber with a transparent
door for as long as you keep the button pressed. Release it, and the door
opens, with a small breeze moving the water bubble slowly forward. I drank
my fill, despite having to wait a couple minutes after each use. I chalked
that up to a safety mechanism, or just some way to avoid people doing stupid
stuff.

The food distributor was on the opposite wall, but this one required payment,
so I regretfully stopped looking at the delicious meals shown on the
advertisements it displayed. I went back to the hexagon intersection. Each
branch went off in a straight line, extending for what seemed hundreds of
meters. They had markings to tell their destination. The one I chose went to
"Docking Port S-2-4". I could sense someone past the hatch at the end of the
tunnel. And indeed, once I reached it, I saw it was pressured. I opened it and
entered.

What welcomed me on the other side was a creature the likes of which I had
never seen. Gray smooth skin shone from wetness. A shape that merged all
organs into a single block, from which escaped long tentacles. Some
gripped the walls to ensure the being remained stationary, and others held a
complex-looking piece of machinery beneath the alien, as if it were a
something to sit on.

Impressively large eyes on the sides of the body focused on me.

"Wrong way, buddy," I heard my voice say.
