I jolted. "W-what?"

That *had* been my voice.

Oh. The sound came from the translation chip. Of course.

"You've got the wrong ship," my otherworldly interlocutor clarified.

Some of their tentacles tensed whenever they spoke, which did nothing to quiet
my unease. I could not see their mouth, but that might have been for the best.

"O-oh." I took a long breath. I could do this. "Listen, uh..." The experience
still felt too surreal. "I'm looking for passage to Douar."

My inability to interpret their mood was unnerving, to say the least. I was
floating, isolated in an admittedly fairly large airlock with a being
completely alien to me.

"Yeah? Not sure we're headed over there, but I can ask. How much are you
paying?"

I hated hearing my own voice played back this way, but I could not afford to
let it bother me right now. In fact, there was pretty much *nothing* I could
afford.

"I don't have money right now, but I should have plenty to pay you back once
we get there." I just hoped that was true. The bank may have closed my account
if I had been reported dead. I was not clear on how jurisdiction handled
cryogenic sleep.

A few tentacles made an abrupt swiping gesture. "You're kidding, right? Get
lost." Not an attack, really, but signs of their growing frustration were
enough to make me back away.

"But I need transport!" I pleaded. "I've just come out of cryosleep and I
don't have anything here!"

"Not my problem." But at least the movement had slowed down. They had to have
noticed my reaction.

I took a long breath. No need to panic just yet. I had one last resort. I
could try to play the Watcher's Chosen card. That was only reserved for
emergencies, as the Order would have to give a generous recompense in return.
It might be warranted at this point, though I knew I had to limit my request
to the easiest task possible to avoid owing too much.

"Fine," I said. "I am asking, as a Chosen, for transport to the nearest
Temple."

Having said that, I hoped the Temple in question was not on this station. I
did not look forward to having to explain myself to security.

"What?"

What was the confusion about? This sort of request, despite being rare, was
well known. The system would not work otherwise. Perhaps they had different
types of temple? I had better be more specific.

"The nearest Watcher's Temple?" I tried.

That got a reaction, the tentacles becoming frantic again.

"Watcher Temples? You're a fanatic? You don't look like an Ekoteng." The speed
of their movement increased, and I backed away.
"Now leave or I'll call security."

That... That could cause issues.

"Alright, alright, I'll go. No need get security involved."

I left myself drift backward, not daring to turn my back on the flurry of
tentacles until the latch was closed again.

As frustrating as being refused felt, I understood why they would not take the
risk. Accepting a complete stranger aboard, especially with no guaranteed
compensation?  Not likely to happen. That was a huge risk, given the fragile
nature of ships, and they would not be able to keep me under surveillance for
so many years. Unless cryogenics were commonplace nowadays? Or perhaps ship
propulsion had made so much progress that travel times were no longer an
issue? Perhaps. That would explain alien presence in the system. I had to
admit, despite how irrational I knew the fear to be, I was somewhat relieved
at not having to spend too long with someone I could not at all interpret the
emotions of. I was used to feelings being shared mentally, and this
translation unit did not address this in the slightest. In fact, it did not
even reflect intonations, as far as I could tell from the disconnect between
the calm voice and the tentacles' movements.

My thoughts were interrupted by movement up the corridor I was slowly drifting
through.

On the intersection module, a crate was being slowed down, sandwiched between
two complex-looking platforms. From the sound they made and the slight
distortion around them, they had to be maneuvering by ejecting gas.  Hopefully
air, given the enclosed environment we were in. They had to be simply
compressing air into canisters for such a purpose. We did not think of it back
at Supplicant Station. Too bad, that would have been useful. I almost made a
mental note to suggest it to the crew later, until I recalled my situation.

The crate moved rather fast, despite it all. I remembered initially thinking
that hauling heavy objects should pose no challenge in microgravity. After
all, were they not virtually weightless? It helped a lot, true, but mass still
mattered. Stopping this crate, as those those sprays were
desperately trying to do, would be beyond my strength. Not fancying getting
crushed against a wall, I was thankful it was not moving this way.

Interested nonetheless, I accelerated toward the intersection, only for the
sprays to shift direction and aim at me. I yelped in surprise. My momentum
stopped and reversed, sending me backward at a faster rate than was
comfortable. The effect might have even been dangerous, had I been any closer.
At this distance, most of the force was dispersed before reaching me. Still,
I had been taken by surprise and only prevented an unfortunate collision by
clawing at the nearest wall. That tore some of the padding off, but that was
what it was here for, right?

"Hey, you alright over there?" I heard my voice say.

This voice thing *had* to stop.

There was a tall bird-like alien at the end of the tunnel. They were holding a
remote controller. I had never seen birds with claws at the end of their
wings, but those were quite noticeable.

"Sorry about that, I'm in a bit of a hurry," they said by clacking their beak.
I supposed their own translation device had to be translating all of that and
communicating to mine. It did nothing to communicate emotions, however. To my
surprise, I could sense still sense their worry. There was still a sliver of
*wrongness* about it, but this familiarity made addressing them considerably
stressful than it had been with the tentacle being.

"No worries," I assured them, "I should have realized the danger."

I pushed myself to slowly drift toward the crate operator.

"The alarm on that thing's busted but that got me quite the disc- Woah,
you're bleeding!"

Was I?

Oh. Yeah. A quick check confirmed it was just my arm, still stained from this
morning. It might have made a small constellation on the wall during the
commotion.

"It's fine, that's from an earlier incident."

I noticed the markings on the crate.

"Wait, is that *food*?"

I had not meant to speak out loud, but the hunger could not be denied.

"Oh, yeah. Haven't you heard? There's some security alert going on, and all
ships are forbidden from leaving. But Prevel told me they'd let ours go if we
hurry, so I have to get this aboard as soon as possible. I don't know what's
going on exactly, nor do they, apparently. They got their orders from up top
after reporting an altercation, and are waiting for reinforcement. Must have
been some serious stuff, but nobody I asked seemed to have witnessed
anything."

That had to be related to me knocking out whoever was controlling the
mechanical armor, but why the extensive safety measures? Did they think I had
gone feral and completely lost my mind? Their reaction looked excessive to me.
Still, I had no desire to face whatever reinforcement was coming. If that
ship was indeed the only one able to leave the station, I had to get on it.

I did not have time for more thoughts: the bird went on.

"Why, did you want some?" Did they mean the food? It seemed so. The flow of
the conversation had made a sudden shift. "I don't know exactly what we got,
but the captain made the order, so it's probably good. Though I guess that
doesn't mean it's good when eaten raw. Made that mistake once, a while back.
There was this salad-thing. It was huge - they used their wings to indicate it
had indeed been ludicrously large - and I tried some. Just to see. It smelled
good, so I thought it was worth the risk. Let me tell you, that thing was
*awful*! And we had enough for a whole month! But yeah, Luan is a genius. Made
it taste good, somehow. I wonder where he learned to cook like that. Couldn't
be from Liesson. I've been there once on holidays, and the restaurant I went
to had terrible cuisine. Like, you'd fear being sick afterwards. Oh, you know,
you might not be able to eat that, though." I suspected that last sentence to
be another shift having brought us back to the food crate, but I could not
fully be sure. "I have some basic food bars from the refugee supplies in my
bag. Not very nutritious, and no taste, just that weird texture, but most
species can eat them."

I was willing to give it a try. Their enthusiasm and cheerfulness was
contagious.

"Yes, please," I said. "I don't even know how long it's been since my last
meal."

Centuries, it seemed.

"Alright, just a minute." They tried to grab something on their right side
using their left hand. I'm Thurian, by the way. What's yo-" They froze, dread
splashing over their good mood.

Did they make the connection between my tattered EVA suit and the security
incident? Should I flee before they reported my location?

"My bag!" they exclaimed. "I forgot my bag!"

It seemed I was safe. At least for a while longer.

"I need to go get my bag, but that will take *forever*. Hey, uh, can you get
this to the ship at S-2-5 for me? Please? I'll be right back."

I did not even had time to answer before they detached the remote controller
from whatever straps kept it secured.

"Uh... Sure, I guess?" I replied.

"Great!" They pushed the controller so it would float my way, then used their
wings to perform a mid-air rotation and propel themselves through the long
corridor that led to elevators.

Damn. Those wings sure came in handy.

I caught the remote. It had a single thick stick surrounded by small switches.
Unfortunately, the inscriptions were worn off, so I did not know what those
did. I placed myself so that I would have a good view of the crate, used my
tail to remain secured to the walls, and grabbed the stick with one hand,
maintaining the controller in position with the other. Applying force revealed
that everything was still powered on. I got a small blast of air in the face,
and the crate started very slowly drifting. My attempt at canceling this
unintended inertia taught me that the stick was not limited to two dimensions.
It rotated and translated in all six, although range was severely limited.

A shamefully large amount of crashes later, I finally got the hang of it. I
was glad no one else was using those corridors. It made sense if no ship could
leave the station anyway.

I located the correct dock and drove the crate along.

There was no one to greet me at the airlock, but I could sense a handful of
people in the ship itself. I entered it, then crossed to the ship's airlock
after closing the station-side hatch. As expected, the interface was two
airlocks connected to each other. Crossing required going through four doors,
all of which required the previous one to be closed. One to enter the
station's airlock, one to go in the connection tube, one to go to the ship's
airlock, and then one to get into the ship itself. Two doors and a tube could
suffice, of course, but that required more trust, offered less safety, and
meant one of the two ends would not work as a airlock for EVA.

Still, it was quite a pain to deal with when transferring cargo.

I had thought the station dirty and poorly maintained, but the ship's interior
made me change my opinion. The station was indeed in need of a good cleaning
and could use to have some deteriorated wall pieces replaced. This ship might
not actually be able to leave, regardless of whether it was allowed to or not.
Something had exploded in this airlock, and no efforts had been made to remove
the burn marks. The hatch's control panel was blackened and unreadable, but
thankfully used the same topology as the station's, allowing me to close the
door behind me.

The airlock was as empty as I expect one to be. Those rooms were meant to
handle sudden depressurization, so storing anything in there would be foolish.

No one seemed to have reacted at me entering the ship, and all the people on
board were away enough that I could open the next door without having to
explain myself. Unsurprisingly, it led to a corridor. Something to easily
access all parts of the ship, I assumed. The walls had no padding, leaving a
mess of tubes and cables visible, albeit tightly secured.

I drove the box in, then looked for ways to open it. I wanted food, damn it. A
few minutes later, I had it figured out. The platforms surrounding it could be
detached through a handful of latches, which revealed that the top of the
crate was entirely missing. It also meant that the content were not meant to
be refrigerated. Which was good, because I had no desire to spoil the food.

The content was mostly bricks of opaque reflective wrapping. Signs that the
content was under a vacuum. Hopefully not needing to be re-hydrated before
consumption. I looked at labels, trying to find something I could safely eat,
and do so without causing too much trouble for the crew. There were no names I
could recognize, and even, as I reached the bottom, quite a collection of bags
covered in warning labels. "Danger", "Do Not Open", "Volatile Substance",
"Authorized Personnel Only", and quite a few more. Not cookies, I deduced. Why
was that in the food crate?

I finally found something I might be able to eat. "Talavus - Neutrapaste" and
no promises of amazing flavors or of lack of certain ingredients unknown to
me. No, this was what Thurian had talked about, as the description on a
sticker glued to the back of the box explained. Some food meant for
emergencies, easily digested by any species, and easily stored. There were
three packs which, combined, did not account for even a single percent of the
content of that box.

Having grabbed one, I paused. I did not have any way to compensate those
people for the food I was taking. No way to leave a note, either. Was I really
about to steal from them? I could wait for Thurian to come back. They had all
but promised to give me one of those. But food was only one of the issues I
faced. I needed to get myself back in Adouar society and find out whatever had
happened to ship that left for. And to our home planet. It *had* reappeared,
right? I would think about it later. Once I was safe. And this station was
definitely not safe. If stowing away aboard this ship was the only way to
escape it, then I would do so. This might earn the crew a ludicrously large
compensation from the Order, but I was sure the Order would be glad to welcome
me, no matter the cost. Still, I could not afford to risk being denied
transport, so waiting for Thurian to return was not an option.

I took the small package and closed the crate, feeling guilty at not being
able to even leave a message.

With concentration, I sensed five people aboard. All of them were my left, so
I went to hide in the opposite direction. Once out of view from where the
crate laid, I opened and started eating the neutrapaste.

As Thurian had warned me, there was no taste. It was not a pleasant meal, but
having something in my stomach did quiet the hunger.

My mind, no longer distracted by hunger, unleashed all the worries that had
hitherto been kept at bay.

There had been hints of terrible truths I had refused to acknowledge. Many of
them, in fact. The aliens, for one. I could easily accept that other species
may have come to join our system. To be near the Watcher, perhaps. But what
about the egregores? The only one I had sensed since waking up was the EVA's.
So many components to control, and none made use an ascended's expertise? That
could not be a coincidence. Perhaps the faith had evolved, following a better
understanding of the Watcher's edicts. But egregores, though never explained
in details, were alluded by the Scriptures. A way for those who had shone
bright in life, to let the light of their knowledge guide future forevermore.
And yet, none were present on the station. Nor on the ship. Unthinkable.

And I was starting to suspect only aliens lived on both. But they used the
Scriptures' language. In their writings, at least. What did that mean?

Had...Had they found our solar system empty, and learned it from the Watcher
as we had? Had my friends failed to reach Nieven? Or had the ritual not
worked? I should have written it down. Perhaps something had happened to Leri
on the way, and the knowledge had perished with him. What about Douar? That
being with the tentacles had *seemed* to know the name. I was no longer so
certain they did.

The crew of this ship still had no reaction to my presence on-board, which
offered another alternative. Maybe none of the aliens were empaths. That would
explain Thurian having been surprised by my presence earlier.  Although it
admittedly could also simply have been the result of inattention.

Thurian was coming back.

They were going through the airlocks, so I still had some time.

Did I reveal myself now and faced whatever charges were brought against me for
having attacked security earlier? Or did I take a leap of faith, staying on an
unknown ship that would take an unknown amount of time to reach an unknown
destination? Stuck between a rock and a hard place, one might say.

What ultimately made up my decision was the complete absence of egregore on
the station. The Order had no presence here and thus no authority to protect
me. The aliens' devotion to the Watcher was uncertain to me. Having announced
myself as a Chosen had been met with confusion, which was not encouraging.
Even if the other civilizations followed a different interpretation of the
Scriptures, the Watcher's Chosen not something the sacred texts described
ambiguously. We were referred to quite directly in many parts, describing both
our duties and our rights. Yes, the Order had extrapolated on some points, to
make our role more in line with our existing cultures and avoid
misinterpretations, but the fact that helping a Chosen in need led to great
rewards was one of the prominent points of the Scriptures. We were the guides,
to both the mundane and the ascended. To help us was to help all, in a way.

And now I was cut off from it all. The only "ascended" left to my charge was a
blasphemous creation. This small creature with no expertise to share. I had
not woken it up from the torpor its stay in cryosleep had induced. There would
be damage from the unprepared stay in complete isolation, and I did not have
tools or hunvre to deal with it.

That was actually one more reason not to risk capture by security. They would
no doubt strip me of my last link to home, as tenuous as it was.

Unsurprisingly, Thurian joined the others, never heading toward my hideout.

A few minutes later, the sound of an alarm rang. It had to be in a bad state,
being barely audible over the whining of the ventilation systems.

Concentrating on the crew to make sure this did had not been signaling an
intruder, I failed to realize the obvious until the wall on my left slammed
into me.

That hurt. Not enough to break anything, but still.

We were moving. And I could guess what was about to follow: a few maneuvers to
position ourselves away from the station and in the right direction, then a
strong and long acceleration. And this room was not suitable for the latter. I
had to move.

From the direction, I assumed this first burst had been meant to make us drift
away from the station. We were thankfully not staying under constant
acceleration for that, so I was able to reach the corridor. Logically, there
ought to be signs pointing to the nearest safe room, for people to take refuge
in case of emergency trajectory changes. No such luck here.

I visited about ten rooms before finding what I needed. A bed-like contraption
with straps. It was dirty, and the stuffing was leaking in some places, but it
would do.

Another sound of the alarm.

Did I rush to the bed or grabbed on to the wall? Too little time for the
former, but the latter would not suffice if this the ship was about to engage
its main thrusters.

I went for the wall, and gritted my teeth as I clang with all my strength
while the ship rotated.

Sweating, I did not wait to fully recover before launching myself at speed
toward the bed. It was meant to absorb shocks, after all. I attached myself to
the bed and waited.

*Bzzzzzz.* *Bzzzzzzz.* *Bzzzzzz.*

Oh, right, they would have a different signal for the main thrusters. That
made sense. One short to signal a short attitude adjustment, three long for a
long burn. Noted.

My weight suddenly magnified beyond what I could withstand, and I struggled to
breathe. These accelerations had always been one of the most unpleasant parts
of space travel. Takeoff and re-entry were the only two parts I hated more. So
much for centuries of progress.




(?
Post author notes:

Claws at the end of bird wings: hoatzin nestling
?)

