The link was down.

I knew it would be. It had been nearly two months since we lost contact with
Central, and none of my attempts at figuring out what prevented the connection
had yielded anything but despair and frustration. Egregores were complex, and
this one counted amongst the most advanced ones I had ever seen. Still, I did
not lack for experience, and with all other projects halted, I could think of
nothing better to spend my time on.

Each bug I corrected gave me a tinge of hope that this time... *this time* it
would be different. That the backlog of messages we were due would start
pouring in. It never happened, of course, but I could not help getting a
little exited at every error I eradicated.

I knew nobody expected me to fix it. Deep down, not even I really believed the
egregore to be at fault. A new system in a barely understood environment? Of
course there would be problems. It had been the likeliest explanation, at first.
But not now. Not after so long.

I unbuckled myself from my work bed, tired and miserable. This last check had
kept me busy for hours. I knew I needed to eat, though using the egregore muted
all body signals. Given the situation, risking bouts of irritability by having
an empty stomach would be downright dangerous, so I forced myself.

'Leri,' I sent him through the egregore, 'how are things on your end? I
validated the authentication sequence, there's no errors... except for the
lack of reply, of course. I'm hungry. Want to grab a bite?'

I knew how things were going for Leri. He felt the same anguish as everyone on
the station. I asked, though, because we were the only two still trying to fix
it. The others had accepted there was nothing to *fix*. That, and I could use
the company of someone alive after talking to ghosts for so long.

Leri worked on an optical system. Not something either the ship or the station
had been meant to have, but with just as much time on his hands as I had, and
the same access to resources hitherto reserved for our mission, he made
telescopes. The first one had only taken a few hours to assemble. A couple of
lenses in a small tube, to be used from our windowed modules. The seeds of a
poisonous hope. We had taken turns trying it out, searching for signs of our
home. A small dot that the egregores would confirm to be our planet. It had not
worked. Plenty of false positives, each a chink in our morale. Leri went on to
create larger and larger telescopes, that first one being no more than a toy.
And this is when our hopes died, for the more advanced telescopes did find
planets. Nasir, Nieven, Scalanis, and all the others. But not ours.

'Oh, hey Eriol,' the reply came. 'Unfortunately, I think the objective lens
broke from depressurization. I'm not seeing anything. Sure, I'll wait for you
at the mess.'

I rotated and used my legs to push myself through the hatch. The station had
grown past a hundred modules with our arrival. Too large and not enough at the
same time. It still felt cramped, but getting anywhere took time.

While Leri and I kept our sanity by continuing to work, the others had decided
to put their mind on a different project: preparations for a final journey,
one that would bring them back home, to rest with everyone else. Even as I saw
the heresy of fleeing this place, I did not blame them. The alternative was
staying here until supplies ran out.

*Here*. The Watcher's Eye. Ever gazing, ever judging. An impossible structure
at the outer rim of our solar system. Two rings, one rotating inside the
other, with diameters close to a quarter that of our sun's. A decade remote
from our planet. Too perfectly circular to be a natural formation. The
undeniable evidence of higher powers.

When we sent the First Supplicants, more than a century ago, our fears had
been of angering it. What we found instead was a dormant structure. The voyage
had not been in vain, however. While the divine messengers had not thought us
worthy of an audience, we found their instructions. Alcoves large enough to
fit ships in, leading to a plethora of oratories filled with engraved pictures
and letters. The Scriptures. It was obviously intended for us to learn the
language. We did. We embraced its teachings, correcting the errors of our
ways. Still did the Watcher find us wanting, refusing to answer our calls.

I finally reached the mess and saw Leri was already waiting for me. I noticed
he had stopped wearing his ceremonial dress. The signs of a crisis of faith, as
had affected almost all of us. I knew their reasoning. According to them, our
missing planet was nothing but the result of the Watcher's judgment. Were they
wrong? I believed so. Yes, the Scriptures did mention such punishments. But
only for extreme cases. Surely, while our best efforts may not have sufficed
to please our Lords, they could not have angered them enough to warrant such
an action.

Leri noticed my disapproval, but only felt a sliver of shame at the implicit
accusation. He was the last of our crew I was still on good terms with, so I
decided not to press the issue. He handed me a perenn, as if paying amends. I
accepted and took a bite of the sweet fruit. I sensed him building up to a
confession, so I waited.

The mess module was relatively large and well lit, being meant for recreation.
We were using our tails to hold still, attaching ourselves to what could pass
for a food bar. It held plantations for quick snacks, and I considered this to
be the best smelling place in a few billion kilometers. A joke I had
reiterated too many times in the past, and was now a somber reminder of our
situation.

Leri still had not spoken, so I took the cue and pushed.

"What is it?"

"I have decided to go with the ship," my friend admitted, ruining any chance
for this to be an enjoyable meal.

Fuck. Fuuuuuuuuck.

"Are you sure?" I knew he was, but I had to ask. "There's a lot more things we
could try here."

Leri was preparing for a confrontation. I recognized the pattern. A fight here
would only entrench him in his convictions. Still, I could not just let him go
to his death without attempting to dissuade him.

"We're not getting anywhere," he began. "The only thing waiting for us here is
madness."

"The only thing waiting for you there is death." I sounded upset. Not good. I
*was* upset, but I should have known better than to let it affect my words.

"We need to know. And there's the seed reserve on Nieven", he countered. "We
can reach it."

That was a new argument. Not a bad one, either. I saw the logic. We were
doomed, even I could admit it, but by joining into an egregore, we could hope
for a nigh eternal existence. A desperate move, but not as unreasonable as
their initial plan.

Interesting. If Leri was telling me this, then despite abandoning their faith,
the crew had adopted one of the most controversial beliefs surrounding
egregores. Was the plant mimicking the mind, or was the same mind continuing
its existence within it? Even as an expert, I could not provide evidence of
either. I considered that the Scriptures implied the latter. Still, we called
ascended people *ghosts* for a reason. It was not a continuation of life, only
non-death.

"You have no high priest," I pointed out. "No one who knows how to perform the
ceremony."

It was his turn to grow upset. My argument had weight, and no one liked having
their convictions tested so. It had been a roll of the dice, and I had failed
to convince him. Fortunately for our friendship, I could mend things, now that
I knew there were going to go forward with their plan no matter what I said.
Maybe a few months ago, I would have been able to navigate the conversation
well enough to make him change his mind. But not now. We were all under too
much emotional stress to try anything clever.

Before he had a chance to burst in anger, I raised my hand.

"You'll try anyway, I can see that. It's fine. I won't try to dissuade you any
longer."

That calmed him down somewhat. Good. I needed him to pay attention.

"Actually, I have an idea of what the ascension ceremony involves."

I was giving a surge of hope to the man, but he grew wary.

"Isn't it supposed to be a secret?" Leri asked.

He knew me well enough, after all.

I nodded.

"Only they who prove worthy shall be given the secrets of immortality," I
quoted. "But I've been maintaining egregores long enough to know a thing or
two, and I may or may not have glimpsed the memories of a few ghosts as I pruned
that part of their knowledge. Plus, at this point, am I not the highest ranking
priest?"

That was questionable to say the least, but, Watcher forgive me, I was not
above using a technicality to give the crew the answer they needed.

Oh, from his spike of fear and excitement, I knew Leri understood. Yes, that
secret would empower him greatly, and he knew my right to give it was tenuous
at best. And this was no place to commit sacrilege.

"Listen. You need to consume hunvre first. Enough that your blood reaches
saturation.  Then you swallow a seed. Don't bite it, of course. It needs to
reach your stomach without breaking. The process should start within a day,
but you need to make sure you keep drinking hunvre, no matter what. As the
plant grows, it will replace your nervous system, but the muscles won't obey
its signals. If you were still able to move after taking so much hunvre,
that will pretty much ensure you stay in bed. Once it has absorbed your
brain, someone can extract it and put it in water. There's no need to use
hunvre anymore after that, unless something breaks. The plant won't grow
without it, but it can survive on just on heat or light."

Leri frowned.

"But... we don't have hunvre!" he complained.

Was I now supposed to convince him the crew's plan made sense? Well, I had
just promised not to try to dissuade him anymore.

I took another fruit.

"You're going to the seed reserve on Nieven, right? There will be some hunvre
seeds there," I pointed out. "And of course I have one here, for my work. I'll
give it to you so you can grow more during the journey. If I keep its fruits, I
should have time to grow another before it's needed."

Giving away this plant was a huge risk, but self sacrifice for the sake of
others was part of the job description, and I took pride in it.

Leri's eyes grew distant, and I knew he was using the egregore to communicate
with the rest of the crew. They avoided me nowadays, too ashamed of
themselves, I thought, so I was not surprised that Leri had been chosen to
talk to me. It was slightly upsetting to realize that while I had been the one
to propose this meeting, their will had been what had induced it. That
should not have been possible. Only the best empaths were allowed to work on
egregores. Stress was affecting way me more than I had realized. I resolved to
meditate more, to compensate.

The station was never silent. As we were not speaking, the sound of a fan
resonated as it desperately tried to suck air through a filter clogged by
shed fur. Maintenance was no longer a concern for anyone but me, it seemed.

I noticed the mood of people on the station significantly improved, and I
knew Leri had communicated the news.

"When are you leaving?" I asked him, forgetting that this would disrupt his
concentration.

He took a moment to recover before replying.

"We're leaving in about fifty hours." He felt guilty about it. "I'll make
sure you get your fair share of supplies. The same as any of us." There was a
moment's hesitation. "It'll be hard to keep the station running all by yourself,
though. Are you sure you want to stay?"

"I have not lost my faith," I reminded him. "This is where I belong."

He nodded, and that was the end of this conversation.

-------

I spent most of my time alternating between meditation, prayer, and
learning station maintenance through the egregore. As Leri had said, I was going
to have a hard time of it. Definitely not an impossible task however, provided I
incurred no debilitating issues.

The dreaded hour had arrived. Everything was ready, except some final safety
measures. As Leri had promised, I received a generous portion of the
supply reserve. Plenty for me to eat while I set up something sustainable.

The ship's crew could perform the entire operation by themselves, but
tradition had the station participate in the procedure. There were hundreds of
checks to perform, and I had spent an inordinate amount of time using the
egregore to help as much as I could.

'This is Supplicant Station, confirming all transfer tubes disconnected and
are sealed. Clamps release in T minus thirty seconds. Have a safe trip, and may
the Watcher be with you all.'

The standard valediction, the irony of which I only realized after the thought
had already been received.

I ordered a ghost to track the ship's progress, allowing it access to all
external sensors, and had another ready to change sensor configurations if the
first requested it.

Focusing back on the message exchange buffer, I noticed the ship's reply.

'Understood, Eriol. Thank you for the help. May you find the peace we all seek.'

The finality of the situation hit me then. That disrupted my concentration,
severing the connection. I was shaking. All the emotions I had tried to
appease during my meditation were surging up at once. My vision blurred and I
chocked.

After crying for a while, I drifted to sleep.

I woke up feeling refreshed, like the stress and anxiety of these past months
had released their grip on me. I decided to use this renewed vigor to start
working on my food plantations.

The main growing room had been virtualy emptied. That was wasteful, but I
understood.  Nearly all of its content would end up on the ship, so they had
moved everything and I was going to have to replant whatever they left me.
Fine. There were still a few bags to put soil in. A good number of torn ones
that I would need to recycle, too. That was fair. The the station could
mold new growth cushions much faster than the ship, having many times the
amount of tools available.

Still, could they not have left some soil here? It seemed I was going to have to
haul around all the supplies they had left me. I assumed they were next to the
docking port. Microgravity helped in that regard, but even so, the station's
architecture made moving anything around a pain.

I still felt in a good mood, so I headed to the docking port to start the
work. On the way there, I took note of all the issues I could detect. After
all, there was no one else to do the maintanance work anymore.

Reaching my destination, I opened the pressurized hatch and found... nothing.

What?

In panic, I checked the hatch number again. It was correct. Had they stored
supplies elsewhere to avoid cluttering the module? Where had they put them?

Fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck...!

I frantically went through all the nearby modules, but still failed to find
any of the supplies.

Out of options, I latched myself and mentally reached for the egregore. I made
a ghost open communication with the ship, after the main radio dish turned to
target it.

'Eriol here,' I sent. 'I am not finding the supplies you left me. Do you have
any idea where they are?'

Not the kind of message I expected to send after that last farewell, but I was
in no mood to care.

'Nolvene here. I will enquire.'

I waited.

Minutes passed, each one feeding my anxiety.

Nearly an hour later, I got an answer.

'I am sorry, Eriol. Ewan admitted he stole them.'

'They're on the ship?! I *need* them!'

'I know... I'm sorry.'

'Can't you turn the ship around?'

'Not without burning through most of our reserves.'

'You killed me!'

'I know... I'm so sorry, Eriol.'

'There *has* to be something you can do!'

But the ghost in charge of communications informed me the connection had been
cut.

'Well? Reconnect, then!' I ordered.

That failed. No signal.

I knew what that meant. The ship had turned off communications. I also knew
Nolvene was right. The reserves did not allow for too much more than the trip
back home warranted. There was a good amount of leeway, depending on what
gravity assists were used, but departure from the station was never done with
fuel efficiency in mind. Time was the factor here. And reversing such a long
full throttle burn would indeed cost them their chance ever of returning home.

But fuck their Watcher-forsaken mission! They *had* to come back! They were
condemning me to a slow and painful death from starvation.

Watcher damn it all! And to cut off communications after that? Afraid of
facing the consequences of your own acts? Of even witnessing them?

I banged my fist on the padding next to me. It completely cushioned the
impact, making the move very unsatisfying.

"FUCK!"

I yelled a few times more. Paused to catch my breath. Then started again.

After the burst of the anger passed, I reviewed my options.

The obvious one was to make peace with the idea of committing suicide. I was
going to die soon. No escaping that, short of a miracle, and my divine
neighbor had not proved so inclined. Still, there had to be ways to make it
painless and dignified.

Still under the shock, I found it hard to think of anything as I drifted
all the way to the medical modules.

I should not have been surprised to find their reserves empty, but I was not
really at my best. Actually, I noticed not everything had been taken. Some
supply containers were not meant to be moved and opening them would degrade
their content. Could I use anything in there? It was mainly temperature
sensitive stuff. Things that would activate upon being warmed up. I queried
the egregore for the contents and uses of what remained. The first one held
many types of microbes and viruses, a ghost informed me, most of them meant to
try out any cure we had hoped the Watcher would give us. The second had the
station's reserves of living cryogenics, to be used should some of the crew need
healing beyond our abilities, with the same expectation that the Watcher may
show mercy in the future. Unexpectedly, the last one could actually be opened
and closed safely, and contained sets of mundane medicine, such as vaccines,
insulin, antitoxins, antibiotics, and such.

Out of a combination of both morbid curiosity and self-interest, I started
learning about the effects of the diseases I had access to.

Nothing pleasant. Nothing pleasant at all. Oh, some could have fit the bill,
had I access to more drugs to make things less painful. But if I had, then the
disease itself would not have been needed. There were no drugs to overdose on.

My answer came from an unexpected source: a of jealous thought at the ghosts'
ability to stay frozen in time without having to worry about eating or
drinking.

Energy was not a concern. The Watcher provided much more power than the
station would ever need. And I had access to a cryogenic pod, which I knew to
be designed to work in vacuum. It would probably not be pleasant, but it
offered hope, and that made it the only possible choice.

To optimize my chances, I had to reduce the possible single points of failure
between the Watcher and myself. The pod itself was an inevitable one, but it
had been made with durability and reliability in mind, so its internal systems
had to features plenty of redundancies. Likewise, the power adapter was
unavoidable. I could link multiple ports to to ensure even if one adapter
failed, the others would survive. That meant taking apart critical pieces of the
station, but I was not going to be in the station, anyway. No, I could not
risk the station's structure failing on me. I was going to set it all within
one of the Watcher's oratories. And if I failed... well... there were worse
places to die than the divine chambers.

I moved everything to the Watcher facing hatch, equipped the one EVA suit I
found and set to work.

-----

I was in the pod, hungry and tired. I waited for it to pressurize before
opening my suit, now stripped down to the bare minimum. I had been surprised to
notice it actually came with a tiny egregore. Something made from a small
animal, I was sure, as there was no answer when I queried it. Still, it was
smart enough that I could use it as a conduit to operate the suit's systems,
provided I concentrated enough to take full control. Definitely blasphemous, but
a clever design nonetheless. It had to be an experimental prototype. Well, I
would not have succeeded without it, but now I had to hope it would not
disrupt the freezing process.

The suit signaled that the environment was pressurized, and indeed, I could
see some greenish liquid slowly pouring out of the holes surrounding me. The
next step had already begun. I made the egregore open the suit that had been
running out of air, since its reserves had been cut. I breathed tentatively,
and noticed the strange smell.

I knew that smell!

Wait... is that anaesthetic gas?!

I fainted within a few seconds.
