(? Eriol ?)

(?
   What about Eriol feeling the *different* watcher, noticing that the watcher
   feels *wrong*, and *active*.
?)

*Bzzzzzzt.*

The noise woke me. Still drowsy, I failed to recognize its meaning. I was
only spared a painful reminder by the belt keeping me stuck in bed as the ship
started maneuvering.

An attitude change? Again? The last one had been only two days ago. Truth
be told, these accelerations were more of an annoyance than a danger,
provided the crew received notice early enough. Back on the ship to
Supplicant Station, we had been taught to always ensure everything was
properly secured whenever one was the last to leave a room. Good
manners dictated to always clean up after oneself, of course, but we checked
anyway, just to be safe. I had lost the habit during my time on Supplicant
Station, but that earlier manouever had given me quite the painful reminder.

Normally, I would not be too concerned about a ship requiering course
corrections. It typically meant avoiding a hitherto undetected obstacle, or
adjusting a trajectory that had deviated beyond acceptable limits. In this
case, however, I suspected the cause not to be so so benine. Indeed, the
previous change had been preceded by a wave of anxiety among the crew and,
far from receiding, it had grown stronger as time went on.

I was still hidden from the crew, cut off from any navigation instrument, yet I
knew perfectly well where we were going. The ever strenghtening Watcher
presence in my mind left no doubt. But what should have been a welcomed beacon
of familiarity brought along more confusion.

While living on Supplicant Station, I had attempted many times to connect with
the Great Spirit in the Rings, perhaps foolishly thinking myself more worthy of
its attention than even the Supplicants. But, of course, The Eternal One's mind
had been both unmovable and undecipherable.

It moved, now. Every day, it unleashed unleashed a dizying mental flash before
the feeling of its presence subtly changed. Still beyond my understanding, but
*something* in the Mind shifted. As for the periodic wave of power, it seemed to
match the moment the Rings became parallel.

The acceleration ceased, but I knew better than to unbuckle myself. A change
of orientation made very little difference in a ship's trajectory. And considering
the size of this one, no pilot would be foolish enough to avoid obstacles just
by letting them pass in close proximity.

*Bzzzzzzt.* *Bzzzzzzt.* *Bzzzzzzt.*

Here it came: they were activating the main thrusters. That short but intense
force was where the real danger of these maneuvers lay. Considering its
dilapidated interior, I was not too reassured about the ship's structural
integrity. As if to confirm my worries, a creaking noise reverberated thorough the room.
I even regretted having left the alien station for a brief moment, but then
everything went back to the relative silence from before. No sudden
depressuration from a breach in the hull. No deflagration from pipes having
ruptured. No, just the squeaking of vents forming the background noise.

I detached myself from the bed and went straight for my food reserves. This
was the fifth day since our departure from the station, and by now I had
managed to find everything I needed to survive. The crew was still unaware of
my presence. Maybe they would have noticed, had they checked their cameras. Or
maybe the cameras that took me by surprise had not been powered on. Or just
plain broken, given the state of everything around here.

I spent my days trying to heal the egregore, meditating, and exploring the
ship.

My protege's recovery remained slow, hampered by the lack of hunvre. It still
remained unresponsive as of yet, but I deemed a full recovery plausible, given
enough time.

My excursions had revealed a vessel considerably
larger than its crew of six implied. My findings from yesterday included a
guide for newcomers aboard the ship. Quite convenient, and not something I had
expected to find, but the reason for its existence quickly became obvious. I
was stowing away aboard the "Konogan Salvation", a rescue ship subcontracted by
a company called "Sacrovir Insurance".

I liked the idea of rescue ships. People roamming space, ready to save those in
danger. A selfless service to the community. Not Chosens of the Watcher, no, but
heroes nonetheless. Or so I initially thought. The little guide described a much
grimer reality. Not as uninterested an occupation as it had first seemed:
if one did not have an active subscription to Sacrovir Insurance's services,
accepting to be rescued would automatically make them incur a considerable
debt. Unconscious people were assumed to conscent to those terms, out of
necessity. It even mentioned payment alternatives, not expecting those who had
just survived a shipwreck to be able to afford considerable fees.

I was glad to notice organ extraction did not appear in that list. It was
mostly composed of different forms of indentured servitude to other branches of
the Sacrovir conglomerate. Perhaps the omission was simply due to Sacrovir not
having a subsidiary able to directly use body parts.

This new reality was making a pessimist out of me. A sad realization.

I reminded myself that in all situations, and especially dire ones, the
Watcher's Chosens were supposed to be the example, the guides to follow, and
those to seek for refuge. Never before had I been faced with an ordeal of this
magnitude, and I knew I was failing in my duties. Even confronted with the
sudden disparition of our planet, the path forward had been clear: keep faith
in the Watcher, keep hope even when all others have given up. Or perhaps I *had*
also given up then, subconsciously knowing us to be doomed. It felt like staying
true to my principles had been easier, when I deemed nothing I could do would
affect my fate.

Today, I was the lost one in need of guidance. My choices mattered. My future
was full of danger, yes, but none unavoidable. Maybe I could simply reveal
myself to the crew and accept to take on a servant contract. I hesitated,
because Chosen were not allowed to *sell* their services. One served the common
good, not a particular individual or company. Then again, Chosen were not
supposed to stow away or steal food.

It was not like the crew would run out of supplies. According to the guide, the
ship could host nearly a hundred people, and though my exploration had revealed
most of the chambers to be neither heated nor pressured, water and food rations
were kept accessible and stocked. Enough for at least a few weeks at full
capacity. As expected, Neutrapaste made the bulk of it. Its taste, or lack
thereof, was making every meal increasingly unpleasant. No wonder the crew
never came to get any.

Reminded of the others, I concentrated on them. Their anxiety had evolved into
fear, confirming that something was amiss. I had to find out what. It would be
risky, but I ought to be able to get close enough to hear what they were saying
without being caught.

And if they did catch me, well, that just meant I would have to request rescue
according to the terms of their service.

Three of the crew were currently grouped together. A good opportunity to spy on
their conversation. The only one I had met so far, Thurian, was not among them.

I went to the part of the ship they spent most of their time on, careful to
memorize the way back. Direction signs were sparse, probably caused by the same
monetary limitations as the rest of the ship's bare-bone environment. Comfort
and aesthetics were clearly not priorities here, to the point of safety
suffering from it. No foamy pads to absorb shocks. The tubes and wires spread
on the walls looked to me like fire hazards. What if a claw caught into a live
one?

I progressed methodically, making sure anything I pushed on was well secured
and not going to cause burns. Corridors followed corridors, all displaying their
own motif of patched up conducts and connectors.

As I neared the place where my targets were gathered, I realized I had to past
the other three crew members to reach them. I risked finding myself cornered
should they wander around. They had not moved during the time it had taken me
to come here, so I judged it somewhat safe and proceeded forward.

My translator picked up the group's conversation and started conveying it with
my voice. I was glad they were using their own translators. I had feared it might
not be the case, because the one crew member not of Thurian's species was
absent, so they might not have needed to. As I started listening in, I noticed
the device actually did more work than I had given it credit for, slightly
shifting the pitch of my voice depending on who spoke.

Unthinking, I almost propelled myself into the room they were in. I could not
risk to remain next to the door, either, so I hid in a neighboring room.

"...Thurian's fault! Why did you have to send *him*?"

Someone was upset about Thurian. Missing the start of that conversation, I
tried to think about why that could be. I had met him on his way back to the
ship with a cargo of food. Having completed that task myself, I knew that
Thurian had not failed it. He had also mentioned a lockdown and having somehow
gotten security to let the ship leave. The only vessel allowed to do so,
according to him. Another thing that Thurian should be thanked for, not blamed,
unless...

"Well, because we were stuck there! I thought it might help. I don't think
anyone else could have managed it. And it worked!"

Another person talking, but that confirmed it. This was about whatever Thurian
did to convince security. *What* had he done, exactly?

"Yeah, it did. The captain made the right call. You know Thurian; complications
were expected."

And the third crewmate, now. That told me who the captain was, but what did
they mean  about complications? Did Thurian get his authorization through force?
He had not sounded like a violent person. Perhaps coertion of some kind, then?

"But *pirates*?! At least on the station we were safe!"

Pirates? What? How could Thurian getting security to let the ship go result in
a pirate attack? That made no sense to me. But that fit the anxiety and fear
the crew was feeling. Hunted by pirates... Just how much danger were we in?

"Come on, it's not *that* bad. They won't touch us or the ship. They want
cargo."

What cargo? As far as I knew, food and water were the only thing being carried.
The one plan of the ship I had seen indicated there was very little room for
anything else. This vessel was meant to transport people, and I was the only
passenger aboard.

"It could be a bunch of slavers! Why would they target a rescue ship if they
just want cargo?"

Ah, so it *was* weird. But regardless of the reason, the pirates' attack seemed
unavoidable. What could I do?

"Thurian probably ran his mouth. That's what he does, isn't it?"

"We are *not* putting the blame on Thurian," the captain said. "*I* sent him,
so *I'm* the one taking the blame, if anyone is. Anyway, we still have three
hours until they reach us. Visant, have you ever dealt with that situation
before? What do you suggest we do?"

"Never on a defenseless ship. Yeah, I know, I know, can't have weapons mounted
on a rescue ship. But no, I don't see any alternatives here... we'll have to do
exactly what they said and not initiate any communications."

"But what if they're slavers! Shouldn't we hide?"

"We can't all hide, Yeuna. But you're right, we need to take some precautions
against kidnapping. And it's best if they don't see Sorcha or Alienor."

"What?! I'm the captain, I can't hide while my ship's under attack!"

"You're the only one on board they could realistically try to ransom," Visant
pointed out. "It would be dumb on their part, but they're pirates, so... let's
not risk it. Problem is, They might have a manifest of the ship. What do we say
if they ask where you are, Alienor?"

"I don't know!"

"We left her at the station?" Yeuna suggested.

"Hah!" Visan scoffed. "No way they'd believe that."

"What, then?"

"I don't know," Visant admitted, "but I guess you've got three hours to figure
it out. In the meantime, Sorcha and I should hide Luan's supply."

"Right," Alienor said. "Okay, I'll get the rest of the crew. We'll figure
something out.  Somehow."

Visant left the room and passed my hiding spot without even a glance.

Pirates. Not something I ever thought I would have to worry about. What could I
even do? Hide, like the captain? I would not be on any ship manifest, of
course, but if they were the slavers Yeuna feared, where would that leave me? If
they took the crew and I found myself alone on this ship, how could I hope to
pilot it? And that was already assuming the pirates were not simply going to
destroy it to hide their actions. The captain and Sorcha likely faced
a similar dilemma. Perhaps having an extra person aboard could help them. But
if Visant was right, and the pirates were just interested in cargo, then what?
If the matter was as simple as Visant made it seem, then there was no reason to
risk an actual encounter. They could simply jetisson the goods and let
the pirates recover them. Would the pirates shoot down the ship then? Would
letting them in change anything about that? Perhaps it was because the pirates
wanted to search the ship and ensure no bounty has been kept from them. That
could make hiding considerably harder, depending on how many pirates were
involved.

But yes, hiding seemed the best option. I knew the captain and Sorcha were not
able to find me, and their lack of telepathic abilities would likewise prevent
them from tracking any search party. And since they considered hiding as a way
to escape pirates, then the expectation was for these pirates to be just as
handicapped. Alien empaths were rare, it seemed. Perhaps because having grown
so distant from the Watcher had deprived them of Its gifts. But for them to not
even consider the possibility had very worrysome implications about the current
state of the Order. If there were no more empaths, then what became of the
Chosen? Had our planet never reappeared, after all?

I could not afford to spend time on this right now.

Making sure to remain hidden, I headed back to my part of the ship. Despite my
best efforts, I failed to recognize some of the intersections, causing me to
waste some time.

Thankfully, there was still no one hunting for me. I reached my sleeping place
unnoticed. Using a cushion cover as a bag, I gathered my meager belongings,
getting ready to move. I had to hurry. Visant and someone whom I assumed to be
Sorcha were rushing in my direction. Sorcha was the one crewmate not of
Thurian's species, making their mood unreadable.

My treasure pouch was complete, containing food, my protege, and a booklet with
plans of the ship. That last item ready to be taken out in an emergency.
Indeed, avoiding detection from people not actively looking for me may be
trivial, but I would need to be considerably more careful with pirates onboard.

I shadowed the pair as they headed for the food supply, getting my first
glance at Sorcha. She, I assumed from the name, had a chitin exoskeleton. Blue
iridescence somehow reflected from its lime green shades. There was a complex
maze of thin entertwined white lines covering her entire body. Was it natural or
a decorative motif? Traces of injuries sustained, perhaps? Hmm... Sorcha was
lucky to be alive, if so. No, probably not scars, then. I doubted a single
event could have caused all of this without killing her outright.

Too late did I realize my carelessness in approaching an unknown alien I was
trying to stay hidden from. Sorcha's large compound eyes might have allowed her
to see me. I had no idea how much of a view angle it gave her, though
thankfully, there was no reaction to my head popping out of the corridor.
Perhaps I had simply been lucky that her attention was focused elsewhere.
Still, while they were deprived of empathic abilities, I had to remind myself
that these strange beings may possess senses surpassing mine. Smell could have
given me away just as easily, should someone be able to isolate it from that of
the ship.

I was familiar with the door Sorcha was operating, having struggled with its
opening mechanism when foraging for supplies. Her large claws made it look like
she was about to simply tear the sealing wheel appart but, to my surprise, it
turned without suffering any visible damage.

Sorcha made to enter the now opened storage room, but caught herself as
something shifted in her mind. Too alien for me to interpret, but I took no
chances. Had she seen me? I prepared myself to flee as her antennae shifted.

She still had not turned her head toward me, so I could not see her mouth, but
I had no issue recognizing who spoke then.  "Visant, did anyone express
discontentment at Louan's food?"

Visant had been lost in thoughts and jolted at Sorcha's unexpected question. "I
don't think Louan is even capable of cooking anything bad. Why do you ask?"

"The packages are not stored properly."

What?

"What?" Visant echoed, passing in front of Sorcha to have a look. "I don't see
it." A pause as he pushed on something. "Yeah, they look secured to me. Are you
sure?"

I had taken care of tying things back. Had I messed up somehow?

"*Yes*. The pattern is broken. It's... *upsetting*."

The pattern?

"Huh... If you say so," Visant said, seemingly as lost as I felt. "I'll ask the
others later. We have more urgent things to deal with."

"*No*. I *must* repair this."

"Bu-" Visant started, only to be interrupted by Sorcha dragging him out of the
storage room. "I will give you Louan's poisons as I work."

"Can't you--no, nevermind, I know better than to even ask." Visant sighed. "Go
ahead, please."

Sorcha went into the room and, in a surprisingly short amount of time,
packages started floating out. After around twenty boxes, the flow stopped.

"These are all our reserves of poison for this storage bay," Sochra said.
"Please do *not* inform me of where you put them."

Visant was regrouping all the packages into a group, using little latches on
them so they would stay together.

"Hah! Right. Don't worry, I'll keep you informed."

"*No*," Sorcha insisted. "I do not want to know about extremely dangerous
products being stashed unharmoniously."

Visant said nothing for a moment, perhaps trying to decide whether this might
be another joke, or if both statements had been genuine.

"Fair enough," he finally declared. "No suggestions, then?"

"Avoid anything related to the ventilation or water system."

"Hmm..."

"Those containers are not rated for use outside the ship."

"Right, but-"

"I will not store poison in my room."

"Damn."

It seemed they were going to be busy there for a while, so I went to explore
some more, to make sure the map I had was accurate.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I should have expected it, but I still found myself confused by the presence
of passages not shown on the plans I had of the ship. Maintainance tunnels,
large enough for me to  go through quite confortably. Some had doors which
were obviously supposed to be locked, but none were. I had nothing to write
with, nor the time to go spelunking, so I resigned myself to be limited to the
main pathways for any fast paced escape.

As they had discussed, Alienor went into hidding and kept exhuding apprehensive
impatience and frustration, both growing as time went on. She was close by,
though I had not dared get any closer to her, in case she chanced to see me
first and I got into trouble just before the pirates came aboard. No, I would
help her if I could, but I had better wait for the situation to call for it,
instead of taking pointless risks.

Sorcha had returned to join the rest of the crew, though she then went to
wherever she spent most of her time. I did not understand how that counted as
hiding, but I assumed she had her reasons. The others were patiently waiting,
all in close proximity to each other.

As I tried to figure out the best paths to move from one part of the ship to
another, I realized what the almost unnoticeable sensation I had started to
feel over the last handful of minutes meant. This was not a phenomenon I had
ever encountered before, but I supposed it made sense. On a planet, one
quickly learned to ignore the torrent of melded emotions flowing from all
directions. Unless I focused, the feelings conflicted too much to really
impact me, but it also took its toll. An imperfect white noise, with spots of
colors exploding then being quickly drowned away. The vastness of space,
combined with the extremely low density of population onboard ships and
stations, made this a non-issue. The sensations remained distinct, although
alien minds appeared to rarely be within my capacity to interpret. But what I
was feeling now had not happened before, because there never had been the
possibility for a different ship to rendez-vous with us.

Still faint for now, but undeniable. People were closing in on us. There was
nothing to do but wait for the inevitable.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

